**MINUTES OF MEETING OF LIMERICK CITY AND COUNTY COUNCIL HOME AND SOCIAL**

**DEVELOPMENT SPC**

A meeting of Limerick City and County Council, Home and Social Development Strategic

Policy Committee was held on **Monday 12th** **December 2016.**

**In Attendance**

An CathaoirleachCllr Michael Donegan

**Present:**

Cllr C Prendiville, Cllr. F Foley, Cllr J Leddin, Cllr J Gilligan, Cllr J

Costello, Cllr P Keller, Cllr R O’ Donoghue, Cllr J Pond, Cllr S Keary, Cllr

W O’Donnell, Cllr J Sheahan

**Sectoral Interests:**

Mr P J O’ Grady, Mr J Prior

**In Attendance:**

Mr Seamus O’ Connor, Senior Social Worker, Social Development

Ms Patricia Liddy, Senior Executive Officer, Community Supports

Ms Ciara Farrell, Administrative Officer, Social Development

Mr Stephen McNamara, Homeless Unit Co-ordinator

Ms Carmel Kirby, A/Director of Services, Social Development

Mr Seamus Hayes, Administrative Officer, Community Supports

Mr Rob Lowth, Administrative Officer, Operations and Maintenance

Ms Mary Kiely, Senior Staff Officer, Community Supports

Ms Rachel Reidy, A/Assistant Staff Officer, Social Development

**Apologies:**

Cllr L M Sheehy, Ms Tracey McElligott & Ms Caroline Kelleher

**Item 1:**

**To approve the Minutes of the Home and Social Development Strategic**

**Policy Committee meeting held on 24th** **October 2016.**

The Minutes were proposed by Cllr J Leddin and seconded by Cllr C Prendiville.

**Item 2:**

**Matters Arising from the Minutes**

Cllr Gilligan and Cllr Leddin congratulated Steve McNamara on all the hard work carried out

by the Homeless Action Team.

It was agreed to take Item 7 next.

**Item 7: Notice of Motion submitted by Cllr. J Sheahan**

‘*I will move at the next meeting that national legislation be reviewed so as to ensure that*

*both the Local Authority & Local Authority Tenants carry out their respective duties of care*

*to a property as both a landlord and tenant’.*

Motion proposed by Cllr J Sheahan and seconded by Cllr S Keary.
---
Cllr Sheahan outlined concerns he had regarding the maintenance of local authority houses

by tenants and the Council and queries whether additional legislation would the care and

maintenance of local authority homes. It was also suggested that tenant responsibilities

should be clearly outlined and that the Local Authority should responded proactively to

maintenance requests that fall under its remit.

R Lowth, Operations and Maintenance, informed the members that issues and the repairs

were logged on the CRM system and discussed the importance of protecting the Local

Authority’s assets and providing a consistent approach to maintenance across Limerick. He

reported that the Tenant Handbook is being updated.

It was agreed that standardisation should take place, the Tenant Handbook should be

updated and that CRM could be used to monitor repairs and complaints. It was noted that

houses should presented to a good standard for allocation.

It was agreed to take Item 5 next.

**Item 5: Report from the Homeless Action Team**

S McNamara, HAT, updated members on the current homelessness situation in Limerick and

informed them that on the week of the 21st to 27th November 219 people were in

emergency accommodation in Limerick. He explained that the winter beds initiative will

make 15 extra beds available. It was explained that regular meetings are held with the

Housing Allocations, HAP and RAS teams as well as projects with Focus Ireland to

accommodate households. Family accommodation was at full capacity and explained that

each family are assigned a staff member from the homeless unit who are in contact with

them at all times. Some families are being accommodated in hotels and alternative

arrangements were being made if they were affected by Christmas closures. A 24 hour

telephone number will be available and staffed at all times over the Christmas period.

The hard work of the homeless team was acknowledged. Discussion was held around

alternative means of providing for the homeless e.g. student accommodation over the

summer and vacant properties.

The members queried the profile of homeless households and if there were other barriers

to holding down tenancies e.g. substance misuse. Training for members when dealing with

vulnerable homeless people was requested. In response to a query on Regeneration and

amenities the Director informed members that LCCC the number of units being delivered

under the current Housing Capital Programme, excluding Regeneration, is 556.

S McNamara offered to provide training for councillors on dealing with homeless clients. He

informed the members that the option of student accommodation has been explored but

was not feasible as many students hold onto their accommodation all year. It was explained

that there are profiles carried out on all homeless clients and they are often very complex
---
and diverse - holding a tenancy can be difficult for some people but there is support for

tenants to enter and keep tenancies. The winter beds initiative is an extension of

emergency accommodation - it is a dormitory style layout open from 9pm to 9am and

places could be accessed through the HAT team.

**Item 4: Review of the Traveller Accommodation Programme 2014-2018.**

C Farrell delivered a presentation on Limerick City & County Council Traveller

Accommodation Plan 2014-2018.

Members discussed the presentation, the current number of halting sites in the city and the

occupancy rate. It was clarified that there are 14 units in the halting site in Clondrinagh and

3 of them are closed and a grant of €81,000 had been allocated to carry out work at the site.

Work has also taken place in Longpavement and heating installed although it was noted that

the age of mobile homes was a significant factor for maintenance and that there have been

issues with non-payment of utilities. R Lowth explained that while the situation is not ideal,

LCCC is committed to a higher standard of housing and conditions have improved

significantly this year. New solutions are needed since continuous extensions of sites is not

sustainable.

In response to concerns expressed by Cllr Keary about the issues arising at Christmas in

Rathkeale it was clarified that the Traveller Accommodation Plan dealt with traveller

households on the Housing Waiting List. P Liddy, Community Support Services, agreed to

liaise with planning around the issues i.e. large increase in visitors, caravans in unserviced

sites etc.

It was clarified that members of the Traveller community are on the Traveller

Accommodation Consultative Committee. It was agreed, because of the short timescale, to

hold a review meeting for SPC members at 2.30pm in Dooradoyle on Monday 19th

December. Submissions received will be considered by the local Travel Accommodation

Consultative Committee.

**Item 6: Finalising of the Draft Allocations Policy**

The members agreed that the amended draft Allocation Scheme should be brought to full

Council for approval for forwarding as a draft to the Minister of Housing, Planning,

Community and Local Government for consideration in accordance with Section 22 (15) of

the Housing (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 2009. The draft policy was proposed by Cllr

Gilligan and seconded by Cllr Leddin.

**Item 8: Workplan 2017**

A draft workplan for 2017 was outlined with inputs from the members including:

 Meeting re ASH Strategic Site Assessment on Council owned sites

 Rebuilding Ireland
---
 Updates on the Regeneration Programme

 Anti-Social Behaviour and Estate Management

 Voids

 Rent Scheme

 Choice Based Letting

 Approved Housing Bodies and tenancy supports

 Housing Strategy for People with Disabilities

 Presentation on the causes of Homelessness

 Conditional Survey of Housing Stock and Energy Efficiency

 Report on inspections of private rented accommodation

**Item 9: AOB**

Members were advised that Mo Foley has commenced work in the Social Development

Directorate as the Healthy Limerick coordinator. This will be based on the WHO model of

healthy cities and towns working to the social determinants of health model.

Members discussed recent notices served on private sector tenants and agreed that

representations or a Notice of Motion could be made to support a bill to prevent vulture

funds evicting tenants to prepare properties for sale.

The Meeting then concluded.

**Date of Next Meeting:** 27th of February 2017
---
