[Original file](https://www.limerick.ie/sites/default/files/media/documents/2021-10/02-minutes-of-march-2021-jpc-sub-committee-meeting.pdf)

---
MINUTES OF PROCEEDINGS AT JOINT POLICING SUB COMMITTEE

MEETING

OF

THE

MUNICIPAL

DISTRICT

OF

CAPPAMORE-

KILMALLOCK HELD AT THE DEEBERT HOUSE HOTEL, KILMALLOCK,

CO. LIMERICK ON THURSDAY, 18th March, 2021, AT 3.00 P.M.

PRESENT IN THE CHAIR:

Councillor John Egan, An Cathaoirleach.

MEMBERS PRESENT:

Councillors Carey, Donegan, Mitchell, E. Ryan, M. Ryan and Teefy.

OFFICIALS IN ATTENDANCE:

Director, Support Services-Finance, Corporate, HR & ICT (Mr. S. Coughlan), Meetings

Administrator (Ms. D. O’Brien), Senior Executive Engineer, Cappamore-Kilmallock (Mr. T.

McKechnie), Clerical Officer, Cappamore-Kilmallock (Ms. H. O’Neill).

Also in attendance: Superintendent An Garda Siochana, Mr John Ryan (Bruff) and

Superintendent An Garda Siochana, Mr Dermot O’Connor (Roxboro), Inspector Pat Brennan,

(Bruff).

The Cathaoirleach, J. Egan welcomed all to the meeting

**1.**Policing Issues in the District

 There were 14 Burglaries in the previous quarter, a reduction of 32%.

 There was an increase of 23% in thefts, 36 in total, compared to 25 for the same

period in 2020.

 There was a reduction in assaults, with 4 for Q1 2021 compared to 14 in Q1 2020.

 Searches increased from 24 (Q1 2020)to 58 (Q1 2021)

 Drink driving offenses decreased from 3 to 1 compared to Q1 2020.

 Drug driving increased.

 There were 4 non serious traffic collisions.

 The number of foot patrols increased in Kilmallock

 The Gardai wished to thank the Elected Members for their engagement, and

appreciate any contact/consultation with An Garda Siochana regarding incidents

prior to approaching the media.

 There were 2 crimes against the person during this quarter.

Inspector Pat Brennan was welcomed by the Cathaoirleach.

Councillor Donegan thanked the Gardai and welcomed the fact that Sgt Colcannon has been

assigned to Kilmallock.
---
2

Councillor Donegan also thanked the staff for monitoring and patrolling following recent well

publicised antisocial behaviour, and their discretion in their actions.

The Elected Members welcomed the dedicated Drug Unit in Bruff.

A request was raised for an update on an incident in Ballylanders where a car broke a red light

at a school, and that safety measures be installed to prevent a reoccurrence.

It was noted that there were reports of thefts of oil, including copper pipe, a burglary in

Kilmallock Church and a specially adapted wheelchair recently.

Councillor Mitchell asked about the views of the Gardai on the increase in thefts, and the

antisocial behaviour exhibited.

Garda John Ryan responded to the points raised.

In relation to the incident in Ballylanders, local Gardai will arrange to speak with the School

and the Elected Members.

In relation to the theft of oil, the cases are under investigation.

In relation to the wheelchair, it has not been recovered.

In relation to the increase in thefts, there is no specific reason why thefts have increased, but

sometimes it relates to an increase in reporting, and CCTV detections.

In relation to Antisocial Behaviour, it was reported that it was hoped to have an increased

presence in Kilmallock and that this increase in engagement and education would help reduce

the incidents.

Councillor Carey raised an incident on Quarry Hill regarding a horse and cart where a car was

damaged. It was noted that a byelaw to ban horses in Kilmallock has been proposed.

Councillor Egan raised the issue of dumping rubbish on the side of the road, and requested

that CCTV on the roads be provided.

Councillor Egan also raised the issue of drug use.

Garda Ryan responded highlighting that there is a focus on detection and education in relation

to drug use. The numbers of detections have increased over the past 12 months and €4m

worth of cocaine was recently recovered in Donegal.

In relation to the use of CCTV, there was an acknowledgement of the issue of dumping

rubbish, and cameras have been installed in some areas with the Environment department of

LCCC undertaking spot checks.
---
3

Councillor Teefy complimented the Gardai on their work, and requested clarification as to

whether drug driving tests were being undertaken. Councillor Teefy also acknowledged the

issue of dumping rubbish and welcomed the additional staff member in the Caherconlish

area, highlighting that there is still only 1 member of An Garda Siochana in Ballyneety.

Garda Ryan responded clarifying that with the public houses closed there was a reduction in

drink driving, but better use of equipment has seen an increase in detection of drug driving.

There has also been an increase in calls to house parties.

Councillor M Ryan requested clarification regarding prosecution of littering with evidence on

CCTV and how the need for Garda Resources e.g. patrol cars at night can be

highlighted/supported .

Director of Services for Support Services outlined that a lot of resurces are being allocated by

the Local Authority towards the issue of litter currently, but that it is difficult to trace. It was

advised that the Elected Members keep the Local Authority up to date on hot spots.

Garda Ryan concurred that there was a need to focus on hotspots, and that it is difficult to

detect even with the use of CCTV cameras. He advised that the Gardai can work with the

Local Authority regarding cameras for the litter hotspots.

In relation to a patrol car, the resources are currently stretched and the Gardai are

endeavouring to provide as best a service as possible in the Bruff district, which is quite large.

It was noted that some call outs can take 30 minutes depending on the location of the incident

and the location of the patrol car.

Garda O’Connor outlined that the thefts in the Caherconlish district only increased by 4 and

there were no drug driving arrests in the district.

In relation to antisocial behaviour Garda O’Connor acknowledged that there was only 1 Garda

stationed in Ballyneety and the increase of a new Garda in Caherconlish. It was noted that

Antisocial behaviour in this area is low.

In relation to litter, it was noted that it would be important to keep the Gardai and Local

Authority informed.

House Parties were not evidenced in the Roxboro district during this time.

Councillor Egan wished to compliment the work of the Gardai on behalf of the Elected

Members in relation to the recent protests in Dublin.

Councillor Mitchell agreed with the sensitive approach taken to the protests.

Councillor Mitchell also wished to highlight that he would like to see a second phase of CCTV

rolled out, and agreed that GDPR was an issue, but that it was important to co-operate.

Councilllor Donegan fully supported the prioritisation of the vaccine rollout with the Gardai.
---
4

This concluded the business of the meeting.

Signed:

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

Cathaoirleach

Date:

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
---
