[Original file](https://www.limerick.ie/sites/default/files/media/documents/2017-08/agenda_-_municipal_district_of_newcastle_west_-_2nd_july_2014_0.pdf)

---
*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  
26 June, 2014.

Corporate Services.
Seirbhisi Corparaideacha.

To: Each Mem Municipal District of New le West

A Chomhairleoir, a chara,

You are requested to attend a Meeting of the Municipal District of Newcastle West to be held at
Aras William Smith OBrien, Gortboy, Newcastle West, Co. Limerick, on Wednesday, 2nd July,

2014, at 10.00 a.m. The business to be transacted is set out on the appended Agenda.

Is mise le meas,

Tina Knox,
Meetings Administrator.

ween en nnn nn nnn ee nnn ee ene e eee eee een meee n nnn en een antennae nee e nee e eee e eRe e Rene anne Rennes anne,

1. Miontuairisci

(a) To note the Minutes of the Newcastle West Area Committee Meeting held on 7

May, 2014.
(b) To adopt the Minutes of the Inaugural Meeting of the Municipal District of

Newcastle West held on 11" June, 2014.

2. To agree Schedule of Meetings.

3. Travel and Transportation

Part 8 Procedure — N21 Newcastle West Pavement Improvement and Pedestrian
Facilities Scheme 2014.

To consider the Chief Executive’s Report, prepared pursuant to Section 179 of the
Planning and Development Acts, 2000-2013, and Part 8 of the Planning and
Development Regulations, 2001-2013, in relation to N21 Newcastle West Pavement

Improvement and Pedestrian Facilities Scheme 2014.
(Report Enclosed)


---
*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  
10.

11.

QUESTIONS

Questions submitted by Councillor J. Scanlan

| will ask at our July Meeting as to when renewal work will occur on the footpaths and on
the roads within Hazel Grove Newcastle West.

| will ask that appropriate directional signage be put in place at Castletown Conyers
towards the local cemetery there.

| will ask for a progress report on the works consequent to the realisation of bonds at the
Glebe, Monagea, and Carrig Desmond, Newcastle West, and for an update position with
regard to Daar Riverview and Arraview.

Questions submitted by Councillor L. Galvin

| will ask at the next meeting for the road number to be placed at the entrance to Maura
O'Sullivan's property at Dromcollogher.

| will ask at the next meeting (a) what Local Authority is responsible for the upkeep of the
creamery bridge Mountcollins and (b) can a plan be put in place to repair it.

| will ask for an up-date on the river at the back of the Town Park, Abbeyfeale, with
regard to land erosion that is supplying water to the parish of Abbeyfeale.

NOTICE OF MOTION

Notice of Motion submitted by Councillor L. Galvin

| will move at the next meeting that the constant flooding problem be addressed on the
Dually Road (above Dan Kennedy's gate). This is an ongoing issue that needs to be
addressed.

Any Other Business.


---
