[Original file](https://www.limerick.ie/sites/default/files/media/documents/2017-06/Minutes%20-%20Community%20Leisure%20and%20Emergency%20Services%20SPC%20-%202nd%20December%202015.pdf)

---
**COMMUNITY, LEISURE & EMERGENCY SERVICES STRATEGIC POLICY**

**COMMITTEE**

A meeting of the Community, Leisure & Emergency Services Strategic Policy Committee

was held in Kilmallock Area Office, Kilmallock, Co. Limerick, on Wednesday 2nd December,

2015 at 2.30p.m.

The following were in attendance: -

**IN THE CHAIR:**

Cllr. F. Foley

**PRESENT:**

Cllr. Michael Hourigan, Cllr. Michael Sheahan, Cllr. Marian

Hurley, Cllr. William O’ Donnell, Cllr. Gerald Mitchell, Cllr.

Lisa Marie Sheehy, Cllr. Malachy McCreesh, Cllr. Michael

Collins, Cllr. Seán Lynch, Cllr. Kevin Sheahan, Cllr. Brigid

Teefy, Ms. M. Vaughan-Mullane, (Agriculture/Farming), Ms.

Mary. Fitzgerald (Development/Construction)

**APOLOGIES:**

Cllr. Ciara McMahon

**IN ATTENDANCE:**

Mr. P. Dowling, Director of Service

Mr. D. Brady, County Librarian

Mr. S. O’ Connor, Senior Social Worker

Mr. D. McGuigan, Administrative Officer

Mr. D. Dullaghan, Senior Executive Librarian

Ms. J. Hayes, Archivist

Mr. M. Fitzpatrick, City of Culture

Ms. S. Deegan, City of Culture

Ms. M. Caulfield, Community Section

Ms. M. Spencer, Professional Limerick Arts Network

Mr. K. Bogue, Professional Limerick Arts Network

Ms. L. Kerins, Doras Luimní

Ms. P. Stapleton, Doras Luimní

The Chair agreed to take the presentations first while waiting for a quorum to be present.

**Item 4:**

**Presentation on 1916/2016 Commemoration Programme (Mr. Damien**

**Brady).**

Mr. Brady is the co-ordinator of the 1916/2016 celebrations. He did a presentation on

what is planned for the year. There is a launch in Granary Library on Monday 7th December

@ 6pm. The commemoration revolves around the theme of 7. 152 schools from Limerick

were invited to write a new Proclamation and a new Irish Flag and a copy of the

Proclamation will be delivered by two Army personnel to each school in Ireland.

The Chair thanked Mr. Brady for his presentation and acknowledged the work and

commitment in his role and that there was no better person to take on this role. He is looking

forward to an exciting year and felt it is a great occasion for the country.
---
Cllr. M. Hourigan queried how existing families will get involved. Mr. Brady informed the

committee that Catriona Crowe is involved in a genealogy project where she is researching

families at the moment and will be making contact with family members and inviting them to

events. Matt Potter has also identified 15-16 other families that could be contacted.

**Item 5:**

**Presentation from Professional Limerick Arts Network and Limerick**

**Arts and Cultural Exchange (Ms. Monica Spencer)**

Ms. Spencer gave a short detailed presentation on the work of Arts groups in Limerick.

PLAN is the body for individual artists in Limerick City and County. It currently has 60

members. LACE is a group set up for all arts and cultural practitioners, community groups.

Irish Chamber Orchestra, Hunt Museum and Lime Tree Theatre would just be some of the

groups that are registered in LACE. She informed the meeting that she would be happy to

meet with Councillors or officials if they want more information.

The Chair thanked Ms. Spencer for her presentation and felt that Arts is well established in

Limerick and that this group would give whatever support they can.

Ms. Jacqui Hayes thanked Ms. Spencer also for her presentation. As current Treasurer of

LACE, she felt the real outcome from 2014 was the need for a stronger voice to inform policy

on culture. She hoped that is what LACE will do in the future.

Cllr. K. Sheehan asked about the re-introduction of Limerick Lace and hoped that some of

the arts groups would be able to get it back. Ms. Hayes replied that an exhibition will take

place in LIT for new patterns on lace design and there are also collections in Limerick

Museum.

Cllr. McCreesh thanked Ms. Spencer also and asked about funding. Ms. Spencer replied that

the groups are self funding. LACE pillar groups aren’t funded. Individuals try to get their

own funding. It is hoped that the Councillors could help with funding.

**Item 1:**

**Adoption of Draft Minutes of Community Leisure & Emergency Services**

**Strategic Policy Committee held on 16th** **September, 2015**

Minutes of meeting of 16th September were proposed by Cllr. Mitchell and seconded by Cllr.

Hurley.

**Item 6:**

**Presentation from Doras Luimní on Fair Work Standards Limerick**

**Campaign (Ms. Patricia Stapleton & Ms. Leonie Kerins)**

Ms. Stapleton is a Migrants Rights Officer based in Doras Luimní. She told the members of

a new project in Limerick where workers can vote for the fairest employer in Limerick. This

will be done by surveys carried out over the next six months. Many hotels in Limerick have

joined the Fair Hotel Scheme such as George Boutique, Pery Hotel and South Court Hotel.

SIPTU always hold their Limerick meetings in one of these hotels. She is looking for the

committee’s endorsement of the campaign.

The Chair thanked all involved in this very important work.
---
A discussion was had amongst the members regarding issues concerning employees with

their employment rights, how to join unions and work permits. It was felt that this is

important that people feel they can stand up for themselves and it would benefit employers

and employees.

Some members had concerns that if employers didn’t recognise unions would they be

blacklisted. It was also felt that work place issues affect all works not just migrant workers.

**Item 2:**

**Update on Suicide Prevention Strategy (Mr Seamus O’ Connor)**

Mr O’ Connor gave a brief update on the Suicide Prevention Strategy. A regional working

group has been set up and is led by the HSE and Mr S O’Connor is a member of this group.

The regional group will consider how the requirements of the National Suicide Strategy

2015-2020 will be delivered.

A discussion took place amongst the members regarding suicide and its impact on individuals

and families. It was agreed that the proposed suicide subgroup should be established and that

it could feed in to the Regional Working Group. Cllr Sheehy stated it was important that this

committee would be proactive at local level and noted her name had not been included in the

membership of the sub group in the previous minutes.

Information on the National Suicide Strategy was circulated to all members.

It was agreed that:

 the subgroup would feed into the Regional Working Group.

 Cllr. Sheehy is to be included as a member of the sub group.

 Suicide awareness training to be made available.

**Item 3:**

**Update on Rural Development Programme (Mr. Dara McGuigan)**

Mr. McGuigan gave an update on the Leader Programme. LCDC had applied to be the LAG

and has been successful in same. The Local Development Strategy was submitted on 22nd

October to the Department. The Department asked for further information in early November

and this was submitted on 22nd November. Local Development Strategy will be evaluated on

17th December.

Mr. O’ Connor also informed the members that subject to the outcome of the 2016 budgetary

process, provision had been made for Council to support the Rural Development Programme

in the amount of €251,000.

**Item 7:**

**Any Other Business**

The Chair thanked everyone for attending and for giving their time to all the speakers at the

meeting.
---
Minutes Proposed By:

Minutes Seconded By:

Minutes Signed By Chair:

Date:
---
