[Original file](https://www.limerick.ie/sites/default/files/media/documents/2021-05/00-2021-06-02-agenda.pdf)

---
*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  

_———_— Comhairle Cathrach Cciche Bardais an Chaisleain Nua Thiar,
& Contae Luimnigh Comhairle Cathrach agus Contae Lumnigh
= , g Aves Wilkamn aaa chor
an s . a Ls a,
—<—> Limerick City _ An Caislean Nua Thiar,

& County Council Co. Lusmnigh,

Neercaslie West Municipal District,
Limerick Cay and County Council,
Ares William Smith O'Brien,

Gortboy,
Newcastle West,
Co. Limerick.
28" Make a2 bacey7s
t: +353 (0) 69 62100
To: The Cathaoirleach and Each Member of the Municipal District of Newcastle West
A Chomhairleoir, a chara,

You are requested to attend an Online Meeting of the Municipal District of Newcastle West
to be held on Wednesday, 2" June, 2021, at 10.00 a.m. The business to be transacted is set
out on the appended Agenda.

Margaret Corbett,
Meetings Administrator.
AGENDA
1. Minutes
(a) To adopt Minutes of Meeting of the Municipal District of Newcastle West held on 5"
May, 2021.
(Copy Enclosed)
2 Disposal of Land
To note proposal for disposal of derelict property, Old School House, Glengort,
Tournafulla, Co. Limerick.
(Report Enclosed)
3. Capital Investments Directorate
To receive update on the Abbeyfeale Traffic Management Plan.

4. Planning and Environmental Services Directorate

To discuss illegal dumping within the Municipal District of Newcastle West.

& customerservices@limerick.ic
Ceanncheathru Chorpardideach, Cé na gCeannaithe, Luimneach © wewwlimerickie
Corporate Headquarters, Merchant's Quay, Limerick

@LimerickCouncit
( 061 - 556 000


---
*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  

10.

i1.

Planning and Environmental Services Directorate
To discuss planning for the development and felling of forestry.
General Municipal Allocation

To review position in relation to allocations under the General Municipal Allocation
2021.

QUESTIONS

Questions submitted by Councillor T. Ruddle

| will ask at the next Meeting that flashing speed reduction electronic signs be
erected at Cullinagh, Newcastle West on the N21 where the speed limit signage
starts.

| will ask at the next Meeting that this Council consider from a forward planning
perspective, cluster type development of houses, near our towns and villages where
there is no adequate sewerage capacity in our rural communities. This has been
done very successfully in other counties.

! will ask at the next Meeting can a footpath be put in place at O’Connell Cross,
Ardagh to Ardvone Cross where the R523 joins the 11333. This is already half
complete and there is some kerbing there as well.

Questions submitted by Councillor L. Galvin

| will ask at the next Meeting for an update on (a) the survey for Lee’s Cross and the
programme of works which was to be prepared (b) the cost of the proposed works
along with a detailed plan of the works (c) how much has been spent to date on this
junction.

| will ask at the next Meeting what is the remaining capacity of the sewerage
treatment plant in Abbeyfeale.

Question submitted by Councillor F. Foley

| will ask at the next Meeting for an update on the unfinished houses at Cois na Feile,
Abbeyfeale.

Questions submitted by Councillor J. Scanian
I will ask at the next Meeting when works incorporating the provision of pedestrian

crossings along the R522 at North Road and Liscarroll Road, Dromcolloger will take
place.


---
*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  

14.

15.

16.

17.

19.

20.

21.

| will ask at the next Meeting as to what progress has been made with regard to the
provision of a footpath along the R520 linking the Kerry Co-Op premises towards the
speed limit sign at Clooneyscheane.

| will ask at the next Meeting for updates on (a) the action required in the interest of
safety along the R522 at Ardnacrohy and (b) that the installation of a flashing speed
indicator at or near the speed limit sign on the Southern side of Feohanagh village.

NOTICES OF MOTION
Notices of Motion submitted by Councillor L. Galvin
| will move at the next Meeting that this Council will support the progress of the
Abbeyfeale Traffic Management Plan. This plan has passed the Part 8 process and
has also been passed by the Working Group.
| will move at the next Meeting that this Council LCCC call on the Minister for Justice
to transfer full control of Go Safe Vans to An Garda Siochana for use at their

discretion, in areas such as accident blackspots and on sections of road where illegal
racing activity has been an issue.

Notices of Motion submitted by Councillor F. Foley

I will move at the next Meeting that funding be requested from Transport
infrastructure Ireland for the proposed Traffic Management Plan for Abbeyfeale.

| will move at the next Meeting that speed ramps be put in place at St. Ita’s Road,
Abbeyfeale, in the interest of safety.

Notices of Motion submitted by Councillor J. Scanian

| will move at the next Meeting that our Housing Directorate write and request the
Minister for Housing to immediately provide funding to renew the 30 or so vacant
properties our Authority owns in the Newcastle West District in the interest of

relieving the chronic housing crisis evident locally.

| will move at the next Meeting that vegetation obstructing various footpaths in the
periphery of Newcastle West town be removed or maintained.

Notice of Motion submitted by Councillor T. Ruddle

| will move at the next Meeting that the road markings outside and in the vicinity of
Monagea National School be renewed.

Correspondence.


---
