[Original file](https://www.limerick.ie/sites/default/files/media/documents/2017-07/agenda_-_meeting_of_municipal_district_of_adare-rathkeale_-_tuesday_12th_may_2015.pdf)

---
*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  

a Seirbhisi Corpardideacha agus Bainistiocht Athruithe,
Comhairle Cathrach agus Contae Luimnigh,

mes Cé na gCeannaithe,
—=— Luimneach
Limerick Corporate Services and Change Management,
CITY & COUNTY Limerick City and oe ——
lerchants A

COUNCIL weak

t: +353 (0) 61 407 100
f: +353 (0) 61 415 266

7% May, 2015.

To: The C irl mber of the Municipal

District of Adare-Rathkeale

A Chomhairleoir, a chara,

You are requested to attend a Meeting of the Municipal District of Adare-Rathkeale to be held at

Aras Sean Finn, New Line Road, Rathkeale, Co. Limerick, on Tuesday, 12" May, 2015 at 9.00
a.m. The business to be transacted is set out on the appended Agenda.

Is mise le meas,
‘

/~ Tom ioe ieee

Meetings Administrator.

a an nn nn enn nn nn oo enn ee nee een RRR e RRR RENAN EARLE OOOO Oe ee ee ee a

AGENDA

1. Minutes

To adopt Minutes of Meeting of the Municipal District held on 21* April, 2015.

2. Disposal of Land

To note proposal for the disposal of land at:

e Ballymacave, Croagh
(Report Enclosed)

= customerservices@limerick.ie
Ceanncheathra Chorpardideach, Cé na gCeannaithe, Luimneach ! 6 wnw.limerick.te
Corporate Headquarters, Merchants Quay, Limerick Ww @LimerickCouncil


---
*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  

3.

7.

Corporate Services

Annual Meeting of Municipal District
To agree date for the Annual Meeting of the Municipal District of Adare-Rathkeale.

QUESTIONS

Questions submitted by Councillor C. McMahon

| will ask at the next Meeting what the current situation is regarding vermin control in
Gortadroma as complaints are being made in relation to same.

| will ask at the next Meeting for an update on guidance or help given to Shanagolden
National School subsequent to their deputation.

Question submitted by Councillor R. O’Donoghue

| will ask at the next Meeting for the staffing levels requested by each electoral Area
Office in relation to Roads and the actual staffing granted to each Area Office as | believe
that our Roads Departments are critically understaffed.

Question submitted by Councillor K. Sheahan

| will ask at the next Meeting for a report on the recent visit by Members, staff and
community representatives to a gasification plant in France.

NOTICE OF MOTION

Notice of Motion submitted by Councillor C. McMahon

| will move at the next Meeting that the councillors and council staff work together as
soon as possible to have a public meeting regarding the proposed development of a
gasification plant at Gortadroma. This would be the first in a series of meetings and
public consultation.


---
