[Original file](https://www.limerick.ie/sites/default/files/media/documents/2024-04/agenda-joint-policing-committee-meeting-26th-april-2024.pdf)

---
*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  

al Comhairle Cathrach Comnhairie Cath feaaOsnl L sigh
. ervey ve Cathrach agus Contae Luiny
& Contae Luimnigh Ceanncheathri Chorparaideach

nAr™N EE Cé na gCeannsithe,
— Limerick City iaanineadh

& County Council
Corporate Services,

Limerick City and County Council,
Corporate Headquarters,

Merchants Quay,

23"¢ April, 2024 —_

EIRCODE V34 EHSO

t: +353 (0) 61 557150

To: Each Member of Limerick Joint Policing Committee f: +353 (0) 61 415 266
A Chara,

| wish to inform you that a Hybrid Meeting of Limerick Joint Policing Committee will take place in
on Friday, 26" April, 2024 at 10.00 a.m.

Details of the Agenda and attachments to be discussed at the meeting are set out hereunder :

Is mise, le meas,

Werods

ra Flanne
Senior Exeetitive Officer
Corporate Services, Governance & Customer Services.

ae new een ne enn een enn he nn ens ee ne ne hoe ee rns ee en enn nee nnn eee nnn heen n nee nee e nnn ee nes een me meeenen enn nneee

AGENDA
1. To confirm Minutes of Joint Policing Committee Meeting held on 1% March, 2024
(Copy Enclosed)
2. To receive update from Chief Superintendent.
3. To receive overview on Crime Statistics from Senior Crime and Policing Analyst.
4. Update from Alan Dooley, Head of Information Systems, on CCTV
5. To approve Community CCTV Schemes

6. To receive correspondence.

7. Question submitted by Councillor Sean Hartigan

| will ask at the next Meeting of the Joint Policing Committee for an update on recent measures
taken to address criminal and anti social behaviour in the Castletroy area.

m Customerservices@limerickie

© wvew timerickte

Ceanncheathra Chorparaideach, Cé na gCeannaithe, Luimneach W @LimerickCouncil
Corporate Headquarters, Merchants Quay, Limerick \ 061 - 557150


---
*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  

8. Question submitted by Councillor Sean Hartigan

| will ask at the next Meeting of the Joint Policing Committee for an update on recent measures
taken to address criminal and anti social behaviour in the Castleconnell area.

9. Question submitted by Deputy Maurice Quinlivan, T.D.

| will ask at the next Meeting of the Joint Policing Committee if there are any plans to install a
Garda Kiosk at Colbert Station

10. Question submitted by Deputy Maurice Quinlivan, T.D.

| will ask at the next Meeting of the Joint Policing Committee if there are currently any plans to
re-open shuttered rural Garda stations in Limerick.

11. Notice of Motion submitted by Councillor Sean Hartigan

| will move at the next Meeting of the Joint Policing Committee that the local immigration office
in Estuary House, Henry Street, engage with the operators of language schools in Limerick to
discuss how they can assist in speeding up the processing of Irish residency permits.

Bsr iat is

| will move at the next Meeting of the Joint Policing Committee that there is an increased visible
presence of Gardai on foot and bicycle patrols in residential areas of Limerick City East to deter
and detect criminal! and anti social behaviour.

it inh



---
