[Original file](https://www.limerick.ie/sites/default/files/media/documents/2021-06/00-agenda-meeting-of-metropolitan-district-of-limerick-21.06.2021.pdf)

---
*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  

a Comhairle Cathrach
& Contae Luimnigh
QR MN a _“*—————

Limerick City
= & County Council

A Chomhairleoir, a chara,

Seirbhisi Corpardideacha,

Comhairle Cathrach agus Contae Lutmnigh,
Ceanncheathnu Chorparaideach,

Cé na gCeannaithe,

Luimneach

Corporate Services,

Limerick City and County Council
Corporate Headquarters,
Merchants Quay.

Limerick

EIRCODE V94 EHSO

t: +353 (0) 61 $$7150
f: +353 (0) 61 415 266

16" June, 2021.

You are requested to attend a Meeting of the Metropolitan District of Limerick to be held in the

The business to be transacted is set out on the appended Agenda.

Is mise le meas,

Ulads

Mark Leahy,
Meetings Administrator.

1. Minutes

on Monday. 21° June. 2021 at 9.45 am.

To adopt Minutes of Monthly Online Meeting of the Metropolitan District of Limerick held on 17”

May, 2021.

2. Disposal of Land

To note proposal for the disposal of land as follows:

(Copy Enclosed).

(a) Disposal of Freehold Interest of premises consisting of a dwelling house situate at 214 O’Malley

Ceanncheathri Chorpardideach, Cé na gCeannaithe, Luimneach
Corporate Headquarters, Merchants Quay, Limerick

= customerservices@limerick.ie
© wwwilimerickie

@LimerickCouncil
( 061 - 557150


---
*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  

Park, Southill, Limerick.
(b) Proposed Disposal of 1 Grennan Villas, St. Joseph’s Terrace, Limerick.
(c) Proposed Disposal at 1-4 Parnell Street, Limerick.
(d) Proposed Exchange of Property at Main Street, Patrickswell, Co. Limerick.
(e) Proposed Disposal of Freehold (Ground Rent) at 35 Thomas Street, Limerick.
(f} Proposed Disposal at Castletroy, Limerick.

(Reports Enclosed).

3. Service Operations Directorate

To consider the taking in charge of the following housing estates in accordance with Section 180 of
the Planning and Development Acts 2000 (as amended) and Section 11 of the Roads Act 1993:

Car na Ree, Bloodmill Road.
(Report Enclosed).

4. Strategic Housing Develo DJA ion to An Bord Pleanala at Punches Cross
Limerick

To consider and discuss the Strategic Housing Development (SHD) Application to An Bord Pleanala
at Punches Cross, Limerick.

(Report Enclosed).

QUESTIONS

5. Question submitted by Councillor S. Benson

| will ask at the next Meeting of the Metropolitan District of Limerick for a total figure for vacant
site levies charged in January 2019, January 2020 and January 2021 in respect of the
corresponding 12 month charge period and what, if any, measures have been taken to collect
these charges and If Limerick City and County Council have placed any charges on these lands in
accordance with the Urban Regeneration and Housing Act 2015.

6. i bmi b ncillor S. n

| will ask at the next Meeting of the Metropolitan District of Limerick, regarding entry registration
number: VS-006-17 on the vacant site register;

a. Why after being placed on the vacant site on 19/06/18 was this site removed from the register
2


---
*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  

and when?

b. Why was this site put back on the register on 14/09/20?

c. Why were lands that were contained In the 2 folios for this site (LK4043F and LK4761F) when it
was first put on the vacant site register in June 18, that were transferred in August and October
2018, prior to valuation in October 2019, not placed on the vacant site register given that the
majority of this land still remains vacant?

d. Did any elected representatives make representations on behalf of the owners of these sites?

7. Question submitted by Councillor S. Benson

| will ask at the next Meeting of the Metropolitan District of Limerick for a full list of sites by
location/folio number, that were considered for entry onto the vacant site register and the reason
why they were not included i.e. VS- 001-17 to VS-041-17 inclusive and any others that were given
a VS code.

| will ask at the next Meeting of the Metropolitan District of Limerick, can the Council provide an
update after my motion to service Glasgow Park and Flanker Court with a bus service was
unanimously supported at a Metropolitan meeting. Can you advise if the Council has contacted
the NTA and Bus Eireann with a view to get the service up and running.

9. Question submitted by Councillor C. Slattery

| will ask at the next Meeting of the Metropolitan District of Limerick, can the Council explain why
a speed survey is being redone on St. Patricks Road when the residents submitted a petition and a
speed survey was done in 2020 to establish that a speed ramp was needed. Why has this ramp
not been installed to date.

10. Question submitted by Councillor C. Slattery

| will ask at the next Meeting of the Metropolitan District of Limerick that an update is provided as
to the reason for the delay in advertising the Part 8 in relation to the graveyard boundary wall for
Mount St. Oliver Cemetery, and that the design of the boundary wall be circulated to the Elected
Members as soon as possible and that the Part 8 be progressed as a matter of urgency.

11. Question submitted by Councillor J. Costelloe

| will ask at the next Meeting of the Metropolitan District of Limerick if the Council has secured
Government funding, or a commitment of Government funding, and if there are commitments
existing for funding from the University of Limerick, Clare County Council or Waterways Ireland to


---
*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  

contribute to the development of the Black Bridge in Plassey and if any discussions have been had
within the local Authority, and / or with any other bodies regarding the development.

12. Question submitted by Councillor E. Secas

| will ask at the next Meeting of the Metropolitan District of Limerick how many applicants
approved for a 4 bed property, who have been on the housing waiting list for more than ten years,
have never been offered a property to-date, and, if any, a breakdown per each Electoral Area.

13. Question submitted by Councillor E. O'Donovan

1 will ask at the next Meeting of the Metropolitan District of Limerick for an update on the
"BELONGING TO LIMERICK Limerick City and County Integration Plan 2018-22" implementation
and if an evaluation of this plan will be taking place.

14. Question submitted by Councillor E. O'Donovan

| will ask at the next Meeting of the Metropolitan District of Limerick for an update regarding
planning compliance by the operator of Ballyneety Quarry.

NOTI F MOTION

15. Notice of Motion submitted by Councillor S. Hartigan (to be referred to the Economic
Development, Enter prise and Planning Strategic Policy Committee)

| will move at the next Meeting of the Metropolitan District of Limerick that Limerick Metropolitan
District Council requires that Limerick City and County Council make the inclusion of swift bird
nesting boxes on suitable sites, a planning condition as part of the planning application process.

16.N lor E. Secas
| will move at the next Meeting that the Metropolitan District:

(a) write to TIl to clarify what funding mechanism / scheme the latter have in place to address
mitigation measures where residents in existing residential developments living near roads
are exposed to existing high noise levels from transportation;

(b) calls on the DHPLG and the Department of Transport to develop national policy and
guidance on the approach to addressing exposure to transportation noise, that will identify
what an excessive noise level is and what acceptable road noise levels are for communities
both in existing residential developments near roads with a view to establishing eligibility
for mitigation measures, and when considering planning for new residential
developments.


---
*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  

17. Notice of Motion submitted by Councillor S. Kiely (to be referred to the Climate Action,
Biodiversity and Environment Strategic Policy Committee)

| will move at the next Meeting of the Metropolitan District of Limerick that we phase out the use
of glyphosate / roundup, that we seek clarification on the extent of use of this chemical from any
contractors who provide weed control / spraying to Limerick City and County Council and that of
our own staff members also, given the possible health implications of its use on wildlife, domestic
pets and people.

| will move at the next Meeting of the Metropolitan District of Limerick that we request a
presentation and clarification from the LDA regarding the Draft Spatial Framework Colbert Station
Quarter given the previous commitment of Quarter 1 of 2021 for the public engagement piece.

| will move at the next Meeting of the Metropolitan District of Limerick that Limerick City and
County Council undertake an audit of speed zones along the county border with Co. Clare and
open dialogue with Clare County Council to provide for better cohesion and safety in traffic
movement between the two counties.

20. Correspondence
(Copy of Correspondence Enclosed)


---
