[Original file](https://www.limerick.ie/sites/default/files/media/documents/2021-05/agenda.pdf)

---
*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  
we Comhairle Cathrach combane Seirbhisi Corpardideachs,

omhairie Cathwach agus Contae Luimnigh,

~A & Contae Luimnigh Ceanncheathrii Chorpardideach,

f™ cé Cc ithe,

— Limerick City = taaviveach
& County Council

Corporate Services,

Limerick City and County Council,

Corporate Headquarters,

Merchants Quay,

Limerick

27" May, 2021. EIRCODE V94 EH90

t: +353 (0) 61 557150
f: +353 (0) 61 415 266

TO EACH MEMBER OF LIMERICK JOINT POLICING COMMITTEE

A Chara,

I wish to inform you that a Virtual Meeting of Limerick Joint Policing Committee will take place on
Friday, 4" June, 2021 at 10.00 a.m.

Details of the Agenda and attachments to be discussed at the meeting are set out hereunder -

Is mise, le meas,

Pron
/ laura ry

Senior Executive Officer

Corporate Services, Governance & Customer Services Department

AGENDA
1. Toconfirm Minutes of Joint Policing Committee Meeting held on 5" March, 2021
(copy attached).
2. To receive update from Chief Superintendent.

3. To receive overview on Crime Statistics from Senior Crime and Policing Analyst.

4. Notice of Motion submitted by Councillor Sharon Benson (referred from Meeting of The
Metropolitan District of Limerick held on 19" March, 2021)

‘| will move at the next Meeting of the Metropolitan District of Limerick, that this Council
write to the Garda Commissioner, requesting additional Garda resources to police the
Northside of Limerick city, as a matter of urgency, in response to the continuous decline of
resources in Mayorstone Garda Station and to tackle the increase in anti social behaviour
and crime. Also, to take note of the recommendations set out by the Fitzgerald Report 2007
regarding Garda resources in Limerick city’.

& customerservices@limerick te

www. timerick,
Ceanncheathri Chorpardideach, Cé na gCeannaithe, Luimneach Rebrctrre si
Corporate Headquarters, Merchants Quay, Limerick ( 061 - 557150


---
*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  
10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

Notice of Motion submitted by Councillor Liam Galvin
‘| will move at the next Meeting that this Council calls on the Minister for Transport to hand

over full control of the Go Safe vans to the Department of Justice where the Gardai would
have full contro! of their use particularly at accident black spots and known racing sections
of road”.

Question submitted by Councillor Liam Galvin
‘| will ask at the next Meeting (a) what revenue was collected from Go Safe vans in 2020

(b) where/who benefited from same and give breakdown and (c) how many speeding tickets
were handed out and give breakdown per county’.

Question submitted by Councillor Liam Galvin
‘| will ask at the next Meeting for a detailed report on the anti social behaviour in our towns

in the Newcastle West District especially Abbeyfeale and a breakdown of the Garda numbers
for the district, what are the official opening times for Abbeyfeale Garda Station and why are
the Garda numbers in Abbeyfeale cut down so low’.

lon submitted by Councill hn
‘| will ask at the next Meeting who funded the recent Garda operation in relation to the

attempted seizure of stock by KPMG from Debenhams in Limerick on May 17/18’.

Question submitted by Councillor John Costelloe
‘| will ask at the next Meeting how much did the whole operation cost and how many Gardal

were involved in the operation at Debenhams on May 17/18’.

Question submitted by John Nugent, PPN

‘| will ask at the next Meeting for a presentation on the challenges and successes of
Exclusion Orders under the Housing Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1997, with a view to the
use of Exclusion Orders being increased’.

Question submitted by Kieran O'Donnell, T.0.

‘| will ask at the next Meeting for an update on Limerick Division's cyber security
preparedness in light of the HSE cyber attack and whether resources are available to the
division to ensure IT systems are up to date’.

Question submitted by Kieran O'Donnell, T.D.

‘| will ask at the next Meeting for an update on

(a) Plans the Limerick division have to roll out the Limerick County Beats Initiative 2021 to
further towns and villages in Limerick City and Environs.

(b) The submission sent from the Limerick Division to the forthcoming Garda Building and
Refurbishment Capital Programme for 2022 for a new Garda Station in
Castletroy/Annacotty, any engagement with Garda Headquarters on the matter and
when you expect a response to the submission’.

Question submitted by Maurice Quinlivan, T.0.
‘| will ask at the next Meeting for an update on the ongoing Garda/Counail operation
‘Operation Copog’ in St Mary’s Park’. =

Question submitted by Maurice Quiniivan. T.D
‘| will ask at the next Meeting for an update on the number of seizures and arrests that have
arisen to date from the ongoing Garda operation ‘Operation Copdg’ related to St. Mary's
Park’.


---
