*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  
_-_em Comhairle Cathrach
& Contae Luimnigh
ae. Limerick Cit
— merick City
& County Council

25" September, 2020.

TO EACH MEMBER OF LIMERICK JOINT POLICING COMMITTEE

A Chara,

Serbhisi Corpardideacha,

Comhatte Cathrach agus Contae Luimnigh,
Ceanncheathni Chorperdideach,

Cé na gCeannaithe,

Lugnnesch

Corporate Services,

Umerick City and County Council,
Corporate Headquarters,
Mercharts Quay,

Limerick

EIRCODE V94 EH90

t: +353 (0) 61 557150
f: +353 (0) 61 415 266

| wish to inform you that Meeting of Limerick Joint Policing Committee will take place in The Council
Chamber, Limerick City and County Council, Dooradoyle, Limerick, on Friday, 2" October, 2020 at

10.00 a.m.

Details of the Agenda and attachments to be discussed at the meeting set out hereunder :

Is mise, le meas

}
James Gime
A/Senlor Executive Officer

AGENDA

1. Confirmation of Minutes of Joint Policing Committee Meeting held on 24™ July, 2020

(copy attached).

2. To receive update from Chief Superintendent.

3. To receive overview on Crime Statistics from Senior Crime and Policing Analyst.

4. Correspondence.

5. To receive Presentation from Sgt. B. Leetch, Limerick Division, Crime Prevention Officer and
Mr. James O'Neill, Property Marking Ireland, seeking funding for a Telesis Property Marking

Machine for Limerick.

6. Question submitted by Councillor Conor Sheehan (referred from Metropolitan District

Meeting held on 21* September. 2020)

“L will ask at the next Meeting how many people were prosecuted for animal cruelty in the

last year’.

Ceanncheathri Chorpardideach, Cé na gCeannaithe, Luimneach
Corporate Headquarters, Merchants Quay, Limerick

---
*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  
FA

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

ion submi ill han
“| will ask at the next Meeting for an update on the policing plan for The Limerick City North
Electoral Area of Limerick for Halloween 2020”.

ion submitted b cillor Conor han
“| will ask at the next Meeting for an update on the additional measures put in place to deal
with anti social behaviour over the summer in Garryowen”.

Question submitted by Maurice Quinlivan, T.D.
“| will ask at the next Meeting if the data can be provided regarding the incidents of

reported domestic violence for the period of March to August of this year ? Cana
comparison be provided for the same period in 2019 ?”.

Q ion submitted by Maurice Quinlivan, TD
“1 will ask at the next Meeting if Members can be updated on any strategy that is in place,
similar to Operation Tombola in Dublin, to deal with the misuse of bangers and fireworks for
the Halloween period ? ”.

Question submitted by Councillor John Costelloe
“| will ask at the next Meeting what plans have the Gardai in place for the forthcoming
Halloween festivities”.

n ih hn
“| will ask at the next Meeting what precautions and protections in relation to Covid 19 have
been implemented for Gardai when transferring prisoners to and from Mulgrave Street
Court House”.

Question submitted by Councillor John O’Donoghue
“| will ask at the next Meeting the following in relation to the use of sulkies on public roads

especially around safety for both horse/passenger, cyclists, pedestrians and motorists :

* Is there a legal age to be in charge of both horse and/or carriage?

e = Isthere a requirement for safety equipment i.e. helmet/high vis etc. for the
passenger?

* Is there a requirement for safety equipment i.e. horse shoes, knee and hoof pads
etc., for the horse ?

¢ = Isthere a requirement for the carriage to have any lighting, indicators, reflectors,
roll bar or safety cage ?

© Does the carriage require brakes ?
Is there a requirement for insurance ?
What Is the position surrounding sulkies hampering the free flow of traffic on our
public roads ?

Questi bmitted by Ki O’D LTD.
“I will ask at the next Meeting for an update on Garda number in Limerick pre covid 19 to
present day with reference to community Gardai, garda staff programme and Garda
engaged in non core court duties and it’s impact on frontline policing”.

---
*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  
15.

16.

17.

18.

Question submitted by Kieran O’Donnell, T.D.
“| will ask at the next Meeting for an overview of available testing equipment for drug

driving held by Gardai in Limerick and whether requests have been made for further
detection equipment to Garda Headquarters/Department of Justice”.

Question submitted by Kieran O'Donnell, T.0.

“| will ask at the next Meeting if the Chief Superintendent has given consideration to
submitting a business case for new Garda stations in Castletroy and Dooradoyle as part of
Garda Capital Plan 2021 onwards”.

Question submitted by Kieran O’Donnell, T.0.
“| will ask at the next Meeting for a breakdown of detected drink/drug driving statistics for
Limerick over the last year”.

Notice of Moti bmitted by Councillor ¢ Sheet
“| will move at the next meeting of Limerick Joint Policing Committee that the

Superintendent/Chief Superintendent review the CCTV in Garryowen with a view to
installing additional cameras at this location”.

---
