[Original file](https://www.limerick.ie/sites/default/files/media/documents/2017-07/agenda_-_municipal_district_of_newcastle_west_-_4th_february_2015.pdf)

---
*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  

__—_—_— Seirbhisi Corparaideacha agus Bainistiocht Athruithe,
Comhairle Cathrach agus Contae Luimnigh,

ANI ‘“ Cé na gCeannaithe,
—=- Luimneach
Limerick Corporate Services and Change Management.
ITY NTY Limerick City and County Council
c C are Merchants Quay.
Limerick

t: +353 (0) 61 407 100
f: +353 (0) 61 415 266

30% January, 2015.

To: T thaoirleach and e r_of the Munici

District of Newcastle West.

A Chomhairleoir, a chara,

You are requested to attend a Meeting of the Municipal District of Newcastle West to be held at
Aras William Smith OBrien, Gortboy, Newcastle West, Co. Limerick, on Wednesday, 4"
February, 2015, at 10.00 a.m. The business to be transacted is set out on the appended

Agenda.

Is mise le meas,

Une Yrow.

Tina Knox,
Meetings Administrator.

eee nen c nnn ween en enneennnnnnennnsesennnsee= ros

AGENDA

1. Minutes:

To adopt Minutes of Meeting of Municipal District of Newcastle West held on 7" January,
2015.

(Copy Enclosed)

2. Deputation from Tournafulla Sustainable Living Community:

To receive Deputation from Tournafulla Sustainable Living Community.

3. Deputation from Newcastle West Arts Committee:

To receive Deputation from Newcastle West Arts Committee.

& customerservices@limerick.le

Ceanncheathru Chorpardideach, Cé na gCeannaithe, Luimneach © wwwlimerick.ie
Corporate Headquarters, Merchants Quay, Limerick Ww @LimerickCouncil


---
*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  

4.

5.

10.

Discuss Issues with Superintendent, Newcastle West:

Superintendent (Mr. T. O'Connor), Newcastle West, to give an update on policing for the
District, to include the issue of boy racers.

Team Limerick Clean Up:

Presentation by Noel Earlie from JP McManus Benevolent Fund outlining the event.

QUESTIONS

Question submitted by Councillor L. Galvin

| will ask at the next Meeting if the road can be re-lined at The Cellar Bar Junction,
Abbeyfeale, on the N21.

Questions submitted by Councillor M. Collins

| will ask at the next Meeting if companies that plant trees on private lands can be
contacted by the Council to cut them back where they protrude onto public roadways, in
particular at Glenastar, Ardagh.

| will ask at the next Meeting if flooding issues at Camas and Clounsherrick can be
resolved between the Council and the Office of Public Works to prevent further flooding
of residents’ properties.

Questions submitted by Councillor F. Foley

| will ask at the next Meeting if there has been a response from the National Roads
Authority regarding the linking up of the crash barrier at Barna.

| will ask at the next Meeting what the current position is regarding a traffic plan at the
entrance to Breen’s house at Barna.


---
*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  

11.

12.

NOTICES OF MOTION

Notice of Motion submitted by Councillor L. Galvin

| will move at the next Meeting that the Council revert back to the system of notifying
Councillors of housing allocations in each Electoral Area.

Notice of Motion submitted by Councillor M. Collins

| will move at the next Meeting that an assessment be carried out on the bridge over the
White River at Glensharrold, Carrigkerry. It is old and in poor condition and a safety
hazard for users.


---
