[Original file](https://www.limerick.ie/sites/default/files/media/documents/2021-03/agenda-meeting-5th-march-2021.pdf)

---
*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  
————— Comhairle Cathrach Pn Cchemacemnunenen
a & Contae Luimnigh Ceanncheathni Chorparaideach,
ANcrN . Cé na gCeannaithe,
— Limerick City Luimneach

& County Council
Comporae Services,
Limerick City and County Council
Corporate Headquarters,
Mercharts Quay,
Limerick

26" February, 2021. EIRCODE V94 EH90

t: 4353 (0) 61 557150
f: +353 (0) 62 415 266

TO EACH MEMBER OF LIMERICK JOINT POLICING COMMITTEE

A Chara,

| wish to inform you that a Virtual Meeting of Limerick Joint Policing Committee will take place on
Friday, 5 March, 2021 at 10.0 a.m.

Details of the Agenda and attachments to be discussed at the meeting are set out hereunder :

Is mise, le meas,

James Clune
A/Senior Executive Officer

Corporate Services, Governance & Customer Services Department

AGENDA

1. To confirm Minutes of Joint Policing Committee Meeting held on 4° December, 2020
(copy attached).

2. To receive update from Chief Superintendent.
3. To receive overview on Crime Statistics from Senior Crime and Policing Analyst.
4. To receive Presentation from Inspector Brendan O’Grady on the control of horses.

5. Update from Superintendent Sugrue on addressing anti social behaviour in Johnsgate
Village.

6. To approve JPC Standing Orders 2021.

7. Question submitted by Councillor Sasa Novak Ui Chonchulr ( referred from Local Electoral
Area Briefing held on 11° January, 2021)
“| will ask at the next Meeting what action An Garda Siochana is taking to address the issue
of cars parking on footpaths throughout the city thereby obstructing pedestrians”.
& Customerservices@limerickie
© wuvetimericicie

Ceanncheathri Chorpardideach, Cé na gCeannaithe, Luimnesch w @LimerickCouncil
Corporate Headquarters, Merchants Quay, Limerick ( 061 - 557150


---
*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  
10.

11.

12.

13.

14,

15.

i i Council n Hartigan
“| will ask at the next Meeting what measures have been taken to enforce level 5 travel

restrictions on the student population in Milford Grange, Plassey Grove, Elm Park and
neighbouring estates”.

Question submitted by Councillor Conor Sheehan
“| will ask at the next Meeting if the CCTV cameras on the Park Canal and Shannon Fields are

monitored”.

Question submitted by Councillor Conor Sheehan
“| will ask at the next Meeting for an update on the number of fines issued for Covid 19

breaches in the Metropolitan area of Limerick broken down by electoral area”.

Question submitted by Kieran O’Donnell, T.0.

“| will ask at the next Meeting for an update on :

- Limerick Division’s strategy on knife crime and statistics on the possession of offensive
weapons such as knives over the last year

- Drug driving offences in Limerick, statistics for the year to date and on the roll out of
newly acquired testing equipment

~ Limerick Division’s drugs strategy and what additional resources are required to address
ongoing issues in the city”.

Question submitted by Kieran O’Donnell, T.D.

“| will ask at the next Meeting for an update on :

- Current Garda numbers in Limerick Divisions as compared to this time last year together
with the new Garda recruits assigned to the Limerick Division over the past year

- Submissions from the Limerick Garda Division to the forthcoming Garda Building and
Refurbishment Capital Programme for 2022 and the inclusion of plans for new Garda
Stations in Castletroy/Annacotty and Dooradoyle/Raheen/Mungret”.

rl U T.
“| will ask at the next Meeting, while | welcome the sight of checkpoints at St. Mary’s Park,
are these checkpoints a Covid 19 action or a response to the known drug dealing occurring
within the estate ? Have the Gardal been in contact with Limerick City and County Council
with regards to the derelict houses that are allegedly used to store drugs ? Are there any
intentions to investigate these abandoned premises ?”.

Questi bmitted by Maurice Quinli Ip
“| will ask at the next Meeting for data with regards to Garda response times to calls from
the public and also how many call outs had the force in Limerick to make in relation to stray,
wandering and maltreated horses”.

Notice of Motion submitted by Councillor Conor Sheehan

“| will move at the next Meeting that the Joint Policing Committee ask the Chief
Superintendent to put in place a specific policing operation to combat the rise in anti social
behaviour along the Canal Bank and Island Bank in Limerick city”.


---
*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  
16. N f i i uncillor Conor n

17.

“| will move at the next Meeting that the Joint Policing Committee write to the Minister for
Justice and The Garda Commissioner to seek the installation of CCTV cameras in Garryowen
and Johnsgate Village”.

N of ncillor Liam Galvin
“| will move at the next Meeting that a joint operation between the Council and the Gardai
take place to tackle the scourge of illegal dumping in our county (particularly Rooska)".

- Notice of Motion submitted by Councillor Liam Galvin

“| will move at the next Meeting that this meeting call on the Minister for Justice to enact
legislation or amend current legislation, as necessary, to put the onus on parents of children
under 16 who are gathering/loitering in public areas and engaging in anti social behaviour,
to be responsible for their children. | would recommend that sanctions be imposed on
parents whose children are engaging in such behaviour by means of fines and that these
fines would be recovered by way of attachment of earnings, if applicable”.


---
*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  


---
