**10th** **July, 2014.**

**Corporate Services.**

**Seirbhísí Corparáideacha.**

**To: Each Member of the Municipal District of Cappamore-Kilmallock**

**A Chomhairleoir, a chara,**

You are requested to attend a Meeting of the Municipal District of Cappamore-Kilmallock to be

held at Áras Mainchín Seoige, Millmount, Kilmallock, Co. Limerick on Thursday 17th July, 2014

at 3.30pm.The business to be transacted is set out on the appended Agenda.

**Is mise le meas,**

**Tina Knox,**

**Meetings Administrator.**

**-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------**

C L Á R

**1.**

**Miontuairisci**

(a)

To note the Minutes of the Kilmallock Area Committee Meeting held on 24th April,

2014.

(b)

To adopt the Minutes of the Inaugural Meeting of the Municipal District of

Cappamore - Kilmallock held on 12th June, 2014.

2.

To elect a Leas-Chathaoirleach of the Municipal District of Cappamore-Kilmallock to hold

office until the next Annual Meeting or until a successor has been elected.

3.

To receive Deputation from Ballylanders Group.

**QUESTIONS**

**Questions submitted by Councillor E. Ryan**

4.

I will ask at our July Meeting for an extension to the footpath at Glebe Road, Kilfinnane

from Ted O’Sullivan’s to Bridget Kelly’s gate area used by a lot of walkers.

5.

I will ask at the next meeting for Plastic Recycling bins in Galbally.
---
2

**Questions submitted by Councillor** **W. O’Donnell**

6.

I will ask at the next meeting for an update on the road works programme.

7.

I will ask at the next meeting for an update on footpath repairs in Herbertstown and Bruff.

**Questions submitted by Councillor M. Donegan**

8.

I will ask at the next Meeting for an update on Unfinished Housing Estates for the

Municipal District.

9.

I will ask at the next Meeting if a crash barrier could be erected on the Bruree road at

Ballygibba, Kilmallock.

10.

I will ask at the next Meeting if a set down area could be provided at the entrance to

Castle Court, Kilmallock.

**Question submitted by Councillor L.M.Sheey**

11.

I will ask at the next Meeting who owns the Market House in Kilfinane and can the

community be allowed access to carry out a clean up.

**Question submitted by Councillor N. Gleeson**

12.

I will ask at the next Meeting if directional signs throughout the District could be looked at

to ensure that they are fully visible to road users.

**NOTICE OF MOTION**

**Notice of Motion submitted by Councillor M. Donegan**

13.

I will move at the next Meeting that the Council consider holding the Municipal District

monthly meetings in the lobby/foyer of Áras Mainchín Seoige

**Notice of Motion submitted by Councillor G. Mitchell**

14.

I will move at the next Meeting that ramps, traffic calming measures and a further

pedestrian crossing be provided at Hospital

15.

Any Other Business.
---
