[Original file](https://www.limerick.ie/sites/default/files/media/documents/2022-10/01%202022-03-30%20Minutes%20JPC%20Subcommittee.pdf)

---
1

MINUTES

OF

PROCEEDINGS

AT

MEETING

OF

THE

MUNICIPAL DISTRICT OF NEWCASTLE WEST JOINT

POLICING SUB COMMITTEE HELD IN ÁRAS WILLIAM SMITH

OBRIEN, NEWCASTLE WEST, CO. LIMERICK, AND ONLINE, ON

WEDNESDAY, 30TH MARCH, 2022, AT 10.00 A.M.

PRESENT IN THE CHAIR**:**

Councillor L. Galvin, Cathaoirleach.

MEMBERS PRESENT**:**

Councillors Collins, Foley and Sheahan.

APOLOGIES**:**

Councillors Ruddle, Scanlan.

OFFICIALS IN ATTENDANCE**:**

Director, Community Development Directorate (Mr. G. Daly), Meetings Administrator, Newcastle

West (Mr. M. Curran), Senior Executive Engineer (Mr. J. Sheehan), Executive Engineer, Roads (Mr.

P. Vallely), Clerical Officer, Newcastle West (Ms. A. Lenihan)

Superintendent A. Magner, Detective Sergeant M. Reidy, Sergeant N. Barry, Sergeant R.

Fitzsimons, Y. O’Keeffe, District Clerk.

At the outset, Councillor Galvin welcomed the Superintendent and everyone in attendance to

the March Meeting of the Newcastle West Joint Policing Sub Committee.

1.

Adoption of Minutes

Circulated, copy of draft Minutes of Online Meeting of the Joint Policing Sub Committee Meeting

of the Municipal District of Newcastle West held on 20th October, 2021.

Proposed by: Councillor Foley

Seconded by: Councillor Galvin

And Resolved:

“That, the draft Minutes, as circulated, be taken as read and adopted and signed”.
---
2

2. Policing Issues in the District

Superintendent Magner commenced by conveying her apologies for not being able to attend

the Meeting in person and acknowledged the importance of the holding of the Joint Policing

Committee Meetings in the District. She stated that Inspector A. Lacey had now left the

District due to promotion and is a huge loss to the area. She also referred to the retirement of

Garda R. O’Donoghue, Abbeyfeale Garda Station and wished him well on his retirement.

Superintendent Magner gave an update on policing issues within the District. She noted the

cases, which the Gardaí have dealt with including burglaries, road traffic accidents, criminal

damage, theft, public order offences, drink and drug offences. She stated that the incidents of

theft has decreased since society has opened up following the lifting of Covid19 restrictions but

stated there was a slight increase in theft from shop. She referred to the substantial decrease in

trespass offences in the District. Superintendent Magner made reference to serious assaults

causing harm and to public order offences in the District.

Superintendent Magner referred to the number of fatal Road Traffic Accidents which she stated

have sadly occurred in the District and stated that two fatal Road Traffic Accidents had taken

place to date this year. She made reference to the tragic and difficult scenes witnessed by the

emergency services and implored all road users to slow down and not to use a mobile phone

when driving. She stated that the Gardaí would continue to target speeding on our roads.

Following a query from the Members regarding the provision of a new Garda Station for

Newcastle West, the Superintendent confirmed that the draft plans for the new Garda Station

have been received and there have been some minor adjustments to the plans. She confirmed

that these plans have now been shared with the relevant stakeholders and are to be returned to

Headquarters shortly. She stated that the next step is to commence the planning process for the

building of the new Garda Station. She also stated that the Garda Commissioner is fully

supportive of the building of the new Garda Station for Newcastle West. At this point,

Superintendent Magner left the Meeting due to a prior engagement.

Detective Sergeant Reidy referred to serious crime in the District and to organised crime gangs

who travel the country to carry out burglaries and organised foreign groups who fly into the

country and target a particular area. He noted the increase in burglaries of commercial premises

by foreign criminal gangs who target specific stores. He also referred to Operation Thor which is

designed to target organized crime gangs involved in burglaries and to the number of cases

before the Courts.

He referred to the stealing of metal by criminals which has significantly reduced and where a

criminal has been prosecuted and charged before the Courts. He also noted the substantial

increase in fraud and economic crimes which he stated is likely to continue, the need to be

cautious when disclosing bank details and to delete suspicious text messages. He stated that the

Gardaí has identified persons and prosecutions are pending against this type of crime. He also
---
3

referred to the work which is ongoing with the banks at national level with a view to reducing

this type of crime.

Detective Sergeant Reidy referred to the Drugs Unit in the District. He stated that there are two

Members assigned to the Newcastle West District and two Members assigned to the Bruff District

and it is expected that a Sergeant will be assigned to the Drugs Unit in due course. He referred

to crime investigation and the excellent work which has been carried out in this area. He

mentioned a number of significant arrests which had taken place in the District. He also noted a

number of convictions secured for sale and supply of drugs and to drug seizures in the District.

He referred to the schools programme and stressed the importance of the assistance of members

of the public in the reporting of crime.

The Members referred to a number of matters including the availability of drugs within the

District, anti-social behaviour, boarding up of derelict properties, use of Council’s property

marking machines, theft of metal and minor road traffic accidents on local roads. The number of

Anti-Social Behaviour Orders (ASBO’s) issued in the District was raised. The Cathaoirleach

referred to a query raised on the use of e-scooters on our streets. In replying, Sergeant Barry

stated that discretion is used in this matter and that education in our schools is ongoing. He also

stated that this matter is being looked at nationally and legislation is in the Dáil at present on the

use of e-scooters for anyone over sixteen years of age.

The Members also referred to illegal dumping and asked if the Gardaí could liaise with the Council

to alleviate the issue of illegal dumping. The placing of barriers at the entrances to forestry roads

and CCTV cameras was also raised. A brief discussion followed on illegal dumping and following

discussion Sergeant Barry stated that business cases could be submitted for CCTV in blackspot

areas.

The Members made reference to the increased cost for fertiliser and to the theft of fertiliser

within the farming community. In replying, Detective Sergeant Reidy stated that one report of

theft of fertiliser has been reported so far in 2022. He stated this fertiliser has since been

recovered and a successful conclusion has been reached. Detective Sergeant Reidy urged the

farming community to be vigilant in the storing of fertiliser and to store fertiliser closer to the

family home where it is secure.

The Members acknowledged the visible presence of the Gardaí on the streets which is of huge

importance. It was also noted that Garda T. Cummane has now taken over the role of Community

Alert in the District.

The Senior Executive Engineer referred to the recent opening on a permanent basis of the Mass

Path, Newcastle West and to any potential issues of anti-social behaviour which may take place

as a result. In replying, Sergeant Barry noted that no incidents of anti-social behaviour has been

highlighted and there are no concerns to date with regard to this matter.
---
4

The Senior Executive Engineer referred to speeding on the Ardnacrohy Road, Newcastle West,

which is a 80km/hr speed zone and in replying Sergeant Barry referred to the issue of safety and

the securing of a safe location to carry out speed checks on this section of road.

The regular occurrence of damage to cars outside the Carnegie Library, Bishop Street, Newcastle

West, was also raised.

The Cathaoirleach and Members complimented the Superintendent and the Gardaí on the

overview of policing matters within the District.

The Cathaoirleach and Members wished to welcome Sergeant R. Fitzsimons to the Abbeyfeale

Garda Station and also wished to convey best wishes to Detective M. Herlihy, Abbeyfeale Garda

Station.

Best wishes was also conveyed by the Cathaoirleach and Members to Garda Roger O’Donoghue,

Newcastle West Garda Station on his retirement. It was agreed that the Meetings Administrator

would correspond with Detective M. Herlihy and Garda R. O’Donoghue on these matters.

This concluded the Meeting.

**Signed: \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_**

**Cathaoirleach**

**Dated: \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_**
---
