[Original file](https://www.limerick.ie/sites/default/files/media/documents/2022-01/00-agenda-meeting-of-metropolitan-district-of-limerick-17th-january-2022.pdf)

---
*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  
Comhairle Cathrach Serbhisi Corparaideacha,
_—_ 5 Contae Lu pervs Comhairle Cathrach agus Contne Lutmnigh,
es. mnig Ceanncheathni Chorperdideach,
AN Cé na gCearinaithe,
— Limerick Cit City , Luinunesch
& County Council
Corporate Services,
Limerick Cay and County Council

Corporate Headquarters,
Merchants Quay,
Umerick

12" January, 2022. EIRCODE V34 EH90
t: 4353 (0) 6% 557150
f: +353 (0) 61 415 266

To: n r Metr itan District of Limerick

A. Chomhairleoir, a chara,

You are requested to attend an Online Meeting of the Metropolitan District of Limerick to be held
on th

The business to be transacted is set out on the appended Agenda.

Is mise le meas,

Mark Leahy,
Meetings Administrator.

Wisshy

1. Minutes

To adopt Minutes of the Monthly Meeting of the Metropolitan District of Limerick held on 20"
December, 2021.

(Copy Enclosed).

= customerservices@limerick.te

Ceanncheathra Chorpardideach, Cé na gCeannatthe, Luimneach w @LimerickCouncil
Corporate Headquarters, Merchants Quay, Limerick  061- 557150


---
*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  
2. Di | id
To note proposal for the disposal of land as follows:

Disposal of Freehold Interest of premises consisting of a dwelling house situate at 14 Donnellans
Buildings, Rosbrien, Limerick.

(Reports Enclosed).

QUESTIONS

3. Question submitted by Councillor C. Slattery

| will ask at the next Meeting of the Metropolitan District of Limerick what plans have the Council
to deal with the urgent issue of graves waterlogging at Mount St. Oliver and Mount St. Lawrence
Graveyards. This matter is very upsetting for people visiting loved ones graves and needs to be
addressed as soon as possible. An up to date drainage system needs to be put in place and funds
spent on these graveyards.

4. Question submitted by Councillor C. Slattery

| will ask at the next Meeting of the Metropolitan District of Limerick have the Council any plans to
install a pedestrian crossing off the Tipperary Road Roundabout near Chadwick’s. There is a crossing
at the other side of the Roundabout and a crossing is needed at the Tipperary Road side for
pedestrians who walk and run. This crossing is needed as a matter of safety.

5. Question submitted by Councillor C. Slattery

| will ask at the next Meeting of the Metropolitan District of Limerick is there any plans to erect
height limit warning signs at the road access into Boherkyle from the Old Cork Road (R512) and also
the road access into Boherkyle from the Old Ballysimon Road? This would help to advise trucks of
the height limit of the bridge at Boherkyle, as many trucks have to reverse out and it is causing a
safety hazard to the residents of Boherkyle and the motorists that use this area.

6. Question submitted by Councillor E. O'Donovan

| will ask at the next Meeting of the Metropolitan District of Limerick for an update on the status
of Loughmore Canal, Raheen, for details of the water sampling that has taken place there and an
update on its current status.


---
*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  
7. Question submitted by Councillor E. O’Donovan

1 will ask at the next Meeting of the Metropolitan District of Limerick for an update on waste
collection times during Covid and what times waste collections providers are allowed to operate to
collect refuse within the city.

8. Question submitted by Councillor E. Secas

| will ask at the next Meeting of the Metropolitan District of Limerick why Planning did not stipulate
noise mitigation measures as part of planning permissions granted to housing developments in the
areas affected by the Motorway noise, and given that some estates such as Evanwood are not
finished long and Kylemore is still ongoing if some money of the lodged bonds can be used towards
the cost of erecting a noise reducing fencing in these areas until TIl undertake the Pilot Acoustic
Mitigation Project.

9. Question submitted by Councillor J. Costelloe

| will ask at the next Meeting of the Metropolitan District of Limerick, as part of the Opera Site
Development, have the Council decided to include a time capsule in the project and if so, let the
Limerick public decide on its contents.

10. Question submitted by Councillor J. Costelloe
| will ask at the next Meeting of the Metropolitan District of Limerick how much progress has been

made with the St. Ann’s Court, Island Road site and the Orchard Site, Castle Street and when will
work commence on these sites.

11. Question submitted by Councillor S. Benson
| will ask at the next Meeting of the Metropolitan District of Limerick for an update on the status of

all Council owned sites in the Metropolitan area, that were to go out for expression of interest for
housing, as presented to Councillors in October 2020.

12. Question submitted by Councillor S. Benson

I will ask at the next Meeting of the Metropolitan District of Limerick what, if any, properties do the
Council own in Grove Island.

13. Question submitted by Councillor S. Benson

| will ask at the next Meeting of the Metropolitan District of Limerick, how many social clauses have
been applied to tenders in the past year and what percentage did this make up of overall tenders.

3


---
*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  
F MOT

14. Notice of Motion submitted by Councillor E. O'Donovan

| will move at the next Meeting of the Metropolitan District of Limerick that presentations of waste
bye-laws are enforced within the city centre to ensure receptacles cannot remain on the street in
between collection days.

15. Corres pondence
(Copy of Correspondence Enclosed).


---
