[Original file](https://www.limerick.ie/sites/default/files/media/documents/2021-09/00-2021-09-15-agenda.pdf)

---
*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  
—_—_ Comhairle Cathrach Diiiche Bardais an Chaisiedin Nua Thier,

Luimn Comhairle Cathrach agus Contae Luimnigh,
& Contae Lut igh Aras William Smith OBrien.
a“ i ~

. Gortbut
Limerick City _ An Caislean Nua Theat
= & County Council Co. Luimnigh.

Nevecastle West Municipal District
Limenck City and County Council
Aras William Smith O'Brien,
Gortboy,

Newcastle Vest,

Co. Limerick.

10™ September AQ2hazn73
t: 4353 (0) 69 62200
To: The Cathaoirleach and Each Member of the Municipal District of Newcastle West

A Chomhairleoir, a chara,

You are requested to attend a Meeting of the Municipal District of Newcastle West to be held

in Aras William Smith OBrien, Newcastle West, Co. Limerick on Wednesday, 15% September,
2021, at 10.00 a.m. The business to be transacted is set out on the appended Agenda.

ia le meas, é
ete Corbett,
Meetings Administrator.

AGENDA

1. Minutes
(a) To adopt Minutes of Meeting of the Municipal District of Newcastle West held on 14"

July, 2021.
(Copy Enclosed)

2. ional & Regional

To receive update from Water Services on water shortages.
3. I icipal All

To review position in relation to allocations under the General Municipal Allocation

2021.
o limerick.ie
Ceanncheathra Chorpardideach, Cé na gCeannaithe, Luimneach wwew.limerickte
Corporate Headquarters, Merchant's Quay, Limerick vo

LimerickCouncil
( 061 - 556 000


---
*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  
10.

11.

QUESTIONS

Questions submitted by Councillor L. Galvin

| will ask at the next Meeting for an update on the traffic management plan for
Boherbue, Newcastle West.

| will ask at the next Meeting for an urgent meeting with Irish Water to discuss the
severe water shortage during the drought and also that Water Services staff from
the Council attend our next Meeting for much needed discussions.

| will ask at the next Meeting for (a) an update on the safety measures at Gleason's
Cross, Cratloe (b) the safety measures for the bend up from Gleason’s Cross on the
Abbeyfeale to Athea Road (c) an update on the replacement of the broken railing at
the top of Knocknaboul, Athea.

Question submitted by Councillor F. Foley

| will ask at the next Meeting for an update on speed ramps on St. Ita’s Road,
Abbeyfeale.

Question submitted by Councillor T. Ruddle

{ will ask at the next Meeting If the private laneway from the side of the

Courtenay School to the Desmond Complex in Newcastle West can be taken in charge
by the Council as | have received a request on this matter from the Board of the
Desmond Complex. The laneway is used by the public on a regular basis.

Questions submitted by Councillor J. Scanlan

| will ask at the next Meeting that the matter of confused house numbers at Daar
River Walk and Daar River View, Newcastle West be addressed.

| will ask at the next Meeting that consideration be afforded to the taking in charge of
the pathway which accesses The Desmond Complex and it’s Créche facilities on the
western side of the Courtenay Boys School.

| will ask at the next Meeting what percentage of cyclists who visited/utilised our
Green Way in July and August brought their own bikes.


---
*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  
13.

14.

15.

16.

17.

NOTICES OF MOTION

Notices of Motion submitted by Councillor L. Galvin

Iwill move at the next Meeting that this Council put in place a working plan during the
holiday period when staff are on leave for all Council Departments. The current
situation is a shambles from a day to day working point of view.

| will move at the next Meeting that an application be made to extend the footpath
up to Fitzgerald farm and horse riding school in Abbeyfeale.

Notice of Motion submitted by Councillor F. Foley

| will move at the next Meeting that a school warden be appointed to
Templeglantine National School.

Notice of Motion submitted by Councillor J. Sheahan
I will move at the next Meeting that Irish Water immediately put in place the required

investment to bring both water supply and wastewater treatment for the town of Glin
to a first world standard to serve the residents of Glin.

Notices of Motion submitted by Councillor J. Scanian

! will move at the next Meeting that our Authority provide a serviced area to
accommodate those who visit locally with Camper Vans.

| will move at the next Meeting that our Authority provide ground for a Dog Park in
the Newcastle West area.


---
