*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  
i Comhairle Cathrach
= & Contae Luimnigh
~_ Limerick Cit
— me’ ity
& County Council
31" May, 2022

TO EACH MEMBER OF LIMERICK JOINT POLICING COMMITTEE

A Chara,

Seirbhisi Corperéideacha.

Comhairie Catheach agus Contae Luimnigh,
Ceanncheathna Chorparéideach,

Cé na gCeannaithe,

Luanineach

Corporate Services,

Limerick City and County Council
Corporate Headquarters.
Merchants Quay.

Limerick

EIRCODE V94 EH90

t: +353 (0) 61 $$7150
f: +353 (0) 61 415 266

I wish to inform you that an online Meeting of Limerick Joint Policing Committee will take place

on Friday, 3 June, 2022 at 10.00 a.m.

Details of the Agenda and attachments to be discussed at the meeting are set out hereunder :

Is mise, le meas,

1. To confirm Minutes of Joint Policing Committee Meeting held on 4" March, 2022 (copy

attached).

2. To receive update from Chief Superintendent.

3. To receive overview on Crime Statistics from Senior Crime and Policing Analyst.

4. To receive update from Chief Superintendent on drug related intimidation.

5. To approve Joint Policing Committee Annual Report 2021.

6. There were two fatal collisions in March 2022 and the associated LA16s have been sent to
the Department of Transport. There are no outstanding LA16s.

7. To receive correspondence.

Ceanncheathri Chorparaideach, Cé na gCeannaithe, Luimneach
Corporate Headquarters, Merchants Quay, Limerick

™ customerservices@limerick.ie
© wonwimernickic

Ww @LimerickCouncil
(061 - 557150

---
*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  
8. Question submitted by Maurice Quinlivan, T.D.:

‘t will ask at the next meeting for a progress report on operation ‘Operation Copdég’, how It is
progressing and if there is an anticipated end date’.

9. Question submitted by Maurice Quinlivan, T.D.:

‘| will ask at the next meeting for an update regarding what actions are being taken to
address the misuse of scrambler motorbikes in urban estates and public green areas’.

10. Question submitted by Councillor Tom Collopy :
‘| will ask at the next meeting for an update on the establishment of the proposed multi-
agency mental health de-escalation unit, outlining what training has commenced and when
the proposed unit Is due to be operational’.

11. Question submitted by Councillor Tom Collopy :

‘1 will ask at the next meeting to outline, if any, specific steps which are being taken to
address the apparent increase in violent muggings and assaults in the city centre’.

12. Question submitted by Councillor Conor Sheehan :
‘I will ask at the next meeting how many scrambler/quad bikes or similar were seized by An
Garda Sfochana in the last year and how many prosecutions have arisen from incidents
involving such vehicles in the last year’.

13. Question submitted by Councillor Conor Sheehan :

‘| will ask at the next meeting for an update on the ongoing Garda operation in St. Mary's
Park’.

14. Notice of Motion submitted by Councillor John O'Donoghue -
‘Il will move at the next meeting that the Joint Policing Committee write to the Minister for
Justice calling on her to enact legislation to ensure that any party that has been granted free
legal aid and is then found guilty of said crime shail be liable to have the costs of the legal aid
recouped by whatever means necessary by the State’.

15. Notice of Motion submitted by Councillor Conor Sheehan :

‘| will move at the next meeting that Limerick City and County Council write to the Garda
Commissioner to request additional Garda resources to police the city centre’.

---
