[Original file](https://www.limerick.ie/sites/default/files/media/documents/2023-06/00-Agenda-Monthly-Meeting-of-the-Municipal-District-of-Newcastle-West-22nd-June-2023.pdf)

---
*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  
a Comhairle Cathrach
= & Contae Luimnigh
aie Limerick Cit
—— merick City
& County Council

16th June, 2023

Duiche Bardais an Chaisledin Nua Thiar,
Comhairle Cathrach agus Contae Luimnigh,
Avas William Smith O'Brien,

Gortbul,

An Caisiean Nua Thiar,

Co. Luimnigh

Newcastle West Municipal District.
Limerick City and County Council,
Aras Willlarn Smith O'Brien,
Gortboy,

Newcastle West,

Co. Limenck.

Eircode: V42EH73

t: +353 (0) 69 62100

To: The Cathaoirleach and Each Member of the Municipal District of Newcastle West

A Chomhairleoir, a chara,

You are requested to attend a Meeting of the Municipal District of Newcastle West to be held
in Aras William Smith OBrien, Newcastle West, Co. Limerick on Thursday, 22™ June, 2023, at
10.00 a.m. The business to be transacted is set out on the appended Agenda.

Is mise le oe
Martin Curran,
Meetings Administrator.

AGENDA

1. Minutes

(a) To adopt Minutes of Meeting of the Municipal District of Newcastle West held on

3" May, 2023.

(b) To adopt Minutes of Special Meeting of the Municipal District of Newcastle West

held on 19 May, 2023.

2. Declaration of Interest.

3. Dis of Land

(Copies Enclosed)

To note proposal for the disposal of property at 11 Colbert Terrace, Abbeyfeale, Co.

Limerick,

Ceanncheathni Chorpardideach, Cé na gCeannaithe, Luimneach
Corporate Headquarters, Merchant's Quay, Limerick

(Report Enclosed)

Sanne eerie
www. limerick.ioe
Y @LimerickCouncil

{ 061 - 556 000


---
*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  
10.

11.

General Municipal Allocation

To review position in relation to allocations under the General Municipal Allocation
2023.

Questions submitted by Councillor J. Scanian

| will ask at the next Meeting that road lining is undertaken at numerous junctions
between Feenagh village and Ballyagran.

| will ask at the next Meeting when will public lighting be installed on the new
section of footpath from Clonroosk towards Feenagh Village.

| will ask at the next Meeting that speed indicators be placed along the R521 at
Ballynoe in the interest of safety.

Question submitted by Councillor L. Galvin

| will ask at the next Meeting for a quotation to be prepared to provide for a
footpath at the western side of the Cemetery to the rear of the Church in
Templegliantine.

Question submitted by Councillor F. Foley

| will ask at the next Meeting for an update on the provision of the footpath at Lower
Athea.

Questions submitted by Councillor T. Ruddle

! will ask at the next Meeting for the situation at Ballinakill Cross to be improved.
There are very poor sightlines at this cross and | have received several complaints
from drivers trying to pull onto the R520 from the L7006. In the interim can the
ditches be cut back while a long term solution is decided upon.

| will ask at the next Meeting when will the loose paving stones around the Square in
Newcastle West be replaced or repaired. You will note | asked this at a previous
meeting and this issue is still outstanding. A resident took a terrible fall outside
Marguerites recently due to the condition of the paving.


---
*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  
12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

NOTICES OF MOTION
Notices of Motion submitted by Councillor J. Scanian

| will move at the next Meeting that protective fencing be put in place next to the
water ditch at the Woodfield Green end of DC Manor.

| will move at the next Meeting that immediate steps are taken to control traffic flow
along the road fronting from Dromcollogher Cemetery towards an t-lonaid Glass.

Notices of Motion submitted by Councillor L. Galvin

| will move at the next Meeting that immediate funding is sought to repair Barbers
Bridge dividing Tournafulla and Templeglantine. | would also ask that a safety
survey/risk assessment be carried out at this location immediately.

| will move at the next Meeting that a road survey be carried out from the Church in
Tournafulla on towards Keating's Bar and that an answer be provided as to why the
road is collapsing.

Notice of Motion submitted by Councillor T. Ruddle

| will move at the next Meeting that either the Council or the Council in conjunction
with the Office of Public Works consider installing a retractable bollard at the vehicular
entrance to Desmond Castle. This Council owned site is used by the Office of Public
Works to access the castle and a local family to access their own home. Vehicles
accessing the bank are constantly parking here and blocking it up, recently an
ambulance could not access the site.


---
