[Original file](https://www.limerick.ie/sites/default/files/media/documents/2017-05/01%20b%20Minutes%20Monthly%20Meeting%2018th%20April%252c%202017.pdf)

---
**MINUTES OF PROCEEDINGS AT SPECIAL MEETING OF THE MUNICIPAL DISTRICT OF**

**ADARE-RATHKEALE HELD IN ÁRAS SEÁN FINN, NEW LINE ROAD, RATHKEALE, CO.**

**LIMERICK ON TUESDAY, 18TH** **APRIL, 2017, AT 6.30 P.M.**

**PRESENT IN THE CHAIR:**

Councillor A. Teskey, An Cathaoirleach.

**MEMBERS PRESENT:**

Councillors Keary, McMahon, O’Brien, O’Donoghue and Sheahan.

**OFFICIALS IN ATTENDANCE:**

Director, Regional Services (Ms. C. Curley), Director, Customer Services, Culture & Arts (Ms. J.

Cotter-Coughlan), Arts and Culture Officer (Ms. S. Deegan), Meetings Administrator (Mr. T.

O’Callaghan).

**1.**

**Allocation of Culture and Arts Cross Party Working Group Budget**

Circulated, at the Meeting, details of the Artists in Schools Programme Limerick dated 29th

March, 2017.

At the outset the Director, Customer Services, Culture & Arts gave an overview on the

activities of the Council in relation to festivals and events and the work that was underway to

develop a cohesive strategy in this regard, while at the same time building capacity and

experience within the Council to deliver on agreed goals. She noted the finite resources that

were available to match the high level of demand and pointed out that, while the District was

not represented on the Culture and Arts Cross Party Working Group, the District’s needs

would be taken into consideration.

In reply to a query from Members the Director, Customer Services, Culture & Arts noted that

the Metropolitan District of Limerick had allocated €238,000 of its General Municipal

Allocation (GMA) to festivals and events and the amount of €600,000 allocated to the Culture

and Arts Cross Party Working Group was separate from same.

Members thanked the Director, Customer Services for her update and the following points

were made by Members while discussing this item.

• While there appeared to be a greater emphasis on City based events there was

potential for County based groups to benefit from same by holding events in

conjunction with same;

• The potential of promoting the cultural aspect of Adare should be considered;

• Serious consideration should be given to inviting a Member of the Municipal District of

Adare-Rathkeale on to the Culture and Arts Cross Party Working Group to ensure

balanced representation. The absence of a District representative on the Local

Community Development Committee (LCDC) should also be reviewed;

• In terms of St. Patrick’s day events, balanced support should be given to all of the

Districts;
---
2

• In order to properly inform the General Municipal Allocation (GMA) process, Members

need to be aware of funding available for festivals and events and what allocations

were being made by the Arts Office;

• Festivals and events should be self financing after an agreed timeframe;

• Small business were no longer in a position to support festivals and events and

consideration should be given to using festivals to promote foods produced locally or

nationally;

• A music festival was proposed for Croom and the organisers would welcome any advice

available from the Arts Office;

• There were a number of small type rural shows and events, such as those relating to

the vintage scene, with the potential to expand into large scale events.

Members noted that the annual Foynes Air Show was of a scale that attracted visitors from

the City and County and further afield. Councillor Keary proposed that Foynes Air Show

should receive assistance from a Council wide fund, subject to conditions, rather than the local

GMA, and this was seconded by Councillor Teskey.

The Director, Customer Services acknowledged the need for a geographic spread of events but

stressed the need to get best value from limited resources. She accepted the need for events

to work towards being self financing and noted that there was a range of support options

available. She stressed the need for additional resources and noted the potential of EU

funding and philanthropy in this regard.

In relation to funding towards a playground in Loghill she pointed out the potential of the

Rural Development Programme and the Development Fund in this regard.

The Cathaoirleach thanked everyone for attending and asked that the issues raised by the

Members be taken into consideration.

This concluded the Meeting.

Signed:

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

**Cathaoirleach**

Dated:

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
---
