*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  
MINUTES OF MEETING OF JOINT POLICING COMMITTEE HELD IN THE
CONFERENCE ROOM, ESTUARY HOUSE, GARDA STATION, HENRY STREET,
LIMERICK ON FRIDAY, 8™ DECEMBER, 2017 AT 10.00 A.M.

IN THE CHAIR : Councillor Sean Lynch
MEMBERS : Councillors Keller, Costelloe,  Ceallaigh, Gilligan
and Mitchell
LCCC OFFICIALS : Mr. C. O’Connor, Senior Exec. Officer, Corporate Services

Mr. M. Bilauca, Head of Digital Strategy
Ms. L. Creamer, Staff Officer, Corporate Services

GARDA NOMINATIONS : Chief Superintendent, Mr. D. Sheahan, Superintendent D. Smart,

Inspector P. Byrnes

OIREACHTAS MEMBERS : Ms. J. O’Sullivan, T.D., Mr. Niall Collins, T.D.,

Mr. M. Quinlivan, T.D., Senator Kieran O’Donnell and Senator
Maria Byrne

COMMUNITY REPRESENTATIVES Mr. Tommy O’Dwyer, Anglesboro Tidy Towns

Mr. William Priestley, Our Lady of Lourdes Community Services,

OTHER : Mr. T. Willoughby, Head of Innovation and Digital Services
Garda Headquarters
APOLOGIES : Mr. C. Murray, Chief Superintendent, Councillors S. Keary and

M. Sheahan and Ms. M. McElvaney, Adapt Services

Prior to the business proper of the Meeting, Chairman, Councillor Lynch welcomed the two new members
onto the Committee namely Councillors Costelloe and Gilligan.

1.

Confirmation of Minutes of Joint Policing Committee Meeting held on 15" September, 2017

Circulated copy of Minutes of Joint Policing Committee Meeting held on 15" September, 2017
(copy attached).

On the proposal of Councillor Mitchell, seconded by Deputy Collins, the Minutes of Joint Policing
Committee Meeting held on 15" September, 2017, were confirmed.

It was agreed to take Item 6 (d) at this stage.

6 (d)

To receive update from Chief Superintendent on the launch of the Active Mobility Pilot in
Limerick Garda Division.

The Chief Superintendent stated that the Active Mobility Pilot Project was launched the previous
evening, 9* December and he introduced Mr. Tim Willoughby, Head of Innovation and Digital
Services, Garda Headquarters, who worked extensively on the project. A lot of research was done
with other police forces and the device now launched was the latest technology available.

It was proposed to do a 6 month pilot and fifty members of An Garda Siochana in Limerick have
volunteered to use the device on a rostered basis.

---
*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  
6 (a)

Mr. Willoughby then gave presentation on the Active Mobility Pilot in Limerick Garda Division.

The Active Mobility Programme will deliver a mobile device, called the Mobile Data Station, into
the hands of front line Gardai. Fifty devices are presently being operated by gardai in Limerick.
The idea of this mobile data station is that gardai can spend more time out on the beat instead of
sitting at their desks doing paper work. These mobile devices provided the same access as if the
Garda was sitting in the station and has all the security, connectivity and information systems that
members need to do their work. It is hoped to develop this device further on for checking tax,
insurance, NCT of vehicles at the roadside. An app is also being looked at to put data stream back
to the local authority eliminating more paperwork. New legislation is required from a data
protection point of view to incorporate cameras into the devices.

in reply to Members queries the Chief Superintendent stated that this new mobile device is traffic
orientated at present and can not be used for dealing with anti social behaviour. However, this
new app should have a serious Impact for rural Ireland especially down the line. The new Active
Mobility Programme will spare one garda per year and will cut out a lot of paperwork.

The Chief Superintendent informed Members of an additional new mobility project which will
include a mobility car which is piloted in Limerick. This new mobility car has many extra features
including amplification of wifi signals. This will be extremely valuable in areas where wifi signals are
very poor, however, he pointed out that this amplification will only work in areas where there is
some kind of a signal. One of these cars will be in Newcastle West and another in Roxboro.

The Members commended the Chief Superintendent and staff for introducing this new device in
Limerick and wished them well for the future.

The Chief Superintendent gave a presentation on latest crime statistics for Limerick City and
County.

Mr. Niall Collins, T.D. asked that the opening hours of Abbeyfeale Garda Station be reviewed. The
Chief Superintendent stated that he was doing a risk assessment of public areas. Once all matters
were resolved he hoped to open the front desks in Abbeyfeale, Askeaton, Kilmallock and Rathkeale
from 9.00 a.m. to 5.00 p.m. daily. It is hoped that works will be completed in the New Year.

Members commended the Chief Superintendent and team for bringing to justice the criminals
involved in the Cappamore and Dromkeen incidents. They commended Operation Thor and
expressed hope that this programme on tackling serious crime will continue.

In reply to Members, the Chief Superintendent stated that five new Gardai were coming to Limerick
and will be divided between Henry Street and Roxboro stations. These Gardai will be on front line
duties initially, however, pointed out that it takes two years to complete the entire training
programme. He added that the new court house in Mulgrave Street will put extra strain on an
already stretched garda force as extra resources will have to be put into the courts in Mulgrave
Street and Merchant's Quay.

Members referred to the need for extra Gardai in the Bruff area.

Members wished Tom O'Connor, retired Superintendent well on his retirement adding that he had
given great service on policing to the city and county.

---
*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  
6 (b)

6 (c)

2.

Update from Chief Superintendent on Garda Reserves
The Chief Superintendent updated Members on the Garda Reserves in Limerick.
Custody Suite at Henry Street Garda Station

The Chief Superintendent gave a guided tour of the new Custody Suite at Henry Street Garda
Station.

Members congratulated the Chief Superintendent and all concerned on the quality of this new
Suite.

A intment of two Members icin, i lon of
Ciara McMahon and Joe Leddin from the JPC

Members noted the appointment of Councillors John Costelloe and John Gilligan to the Joint
Policing Committee due to resignation of Councillors Ciara McMahon and Joe Leddin.

Members who had an interest in taking part in one of the above Working Groups to submit their
names and Group which they are interested in to Senior Executive Officer, Corporate Services,
within the next two weeks.

Establishment of Geographic Sub Committees

The Senior Executive Officer, Corporate Services, stated that this item will be listed as an item at
next Metropolitan District Meeting.

Set Schedule of dates for JPC Meetings in 2018

The following dates were agreed for JPC Meetings in 2018, all to commence at 10.00 a.m. :
Friday, 23'° March, 2018

Friday, 29" June, 2018

Friday, 21" September, 2018

Friday, 14" December, 2018

The Senior Executive Officer stated that Ms. Josephine Fehily, Chairperson, The Policing Authority,

had indicated that she wanted to attend one of these JPC Meetings so the above dates will be
forwarded to her asap.

Update by Mr. Mihai Bilauca

Update on installation of CCTV in a number of areas given by Mr. Bilauca. This was welcomed by
the Members.

---
*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  
“1 will move at the next Metropolitan Area Meeting that a Driver Feedback Sign be erected at the
Ballinacurra side of the Dooradoyle Flyover to slow traffic in Ballinacurra which is currently
speeding on the road”.

The improvements on the Ballinacurra Road were completed a number of years ago. The project
was funded entirely by the National Transport Authority and could only be delivered where there
was a gain for public transport in accordance with Government Policy. As with any major transport
project the Council continues to monitor the effectiveness of the scheme. Based on the
observations of the Council the scheme has delivered on its primary objectives, which was the
improvement of public transport.

As part of the delivery of the project there was considerable public engagement with residents at
an individual and collective level. The outcome of this engagement led to amendments in the
delivery of the scheme to accommodate the needs of the households on the Ballinacurra Road.
One of the key requirements was facilitating ease of access to off street parking.

The scheme was designed in accordance with national guidelines with a view to limiting speeds. In
response to submissions received from the residents a ‘driver feedback sign’ was installed on the
Ballinacurra Road recently. This sign advises motorists of their speed and these signs had been
proven effective in terms of speed control.

However, enforcement of speed control is a matter for An Garda Siochana and it was requested at
the Council Meeting that this matter be brought to the attention of An Garda Siochana at the Joint
Policing Committee with a request for an increased presence in relation to speed enforcement on
the Ballinacurra Road.

“| will move at the next Meeting that this Council calls on the Minister for Justice and the Minister
for Transport to look for a full review of the Go Safe Vans in Limerick”.

The Chief Superintendent gave a short outline in relation to the procedures followed in relation to
the deployment of Go Safe Vans in the various locations.

10. Question submitted by Councillor R. O'Donoghue
“What is the legislation on the use of/flying of drones”
The Chief Superintendent gave a short overview in relation to the issues arising in relation to the

use of/ftying of drones particularly in relation to the areas adjacent to Shannon Airport and the fly
paths and also in relation to privacy laws etc.

Concerns were expressed by the Members in relation to the use of drones by some criminal
elements in rural areas pointed out that this was an area which required further legislation to
police adequately.

Circulated response from An Garda Siochana in response to request regarding the allocation of
Probationer Gardai to Limerick.

---
*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  
It was noted that five Probationer Gardai were allocated to Limerick from the recent attestation
and this was welcomed by the Members. Howevr, Members referred to the urgent need for

additional Garda resources to be put in place at an early stage.

12. View new Custody Suite at Henry Street Garda Station

See Item No. 6 (c)

THE MEETING THEN CONCLUDED

COUNCILLOR SEAN LYNCH
CHAIRMAN

---
*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  

---
