[Original file](https://www.limerick.ie/sites/default/files/media/documents/2020-11/00-2020-12-02-agenda.pdf)

---
*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  

__——_ Comhairle Cathrach PB sorte oe tccerticlpontpelden 5
& Contae Luimnigh omhaiile Cathrach agus Contae Luimnag!
Avas William Smith OBnen

NN A . - - : Gortbui

— Limerick City An Caislean Nua Thiar,

& County Council Co, Luimnigh

Newcastle West Municipal District.
Umenck City and County Council,
Aras Wittiam Smith O'Brien,

Gortboy,

27" November, 2020 Newcastle West,

Ca Urmerick,

Eircode: V42EH73

To: The Cathaoirleach and Each Member of the Municipal District of Newcastle t aceon
2 PID2 WV

A Chomhairleoir, a chara,

You are requested to attend a Meeting of the Municipal District of Newcastle West to be held
in Aras William Smith OBrien, Newcastle West, Co. Limerick on Wednesday, 2" December,
2020, at 10.00 a.m. The business to be transacted is set out on the appended Agenda.

Is mise le meas,

Margaret Corbett,
Meetings Administrator.

AGENDA
1. Minutes
(a) To adopt Minutes of Meeting of the Municipal District of Newcastle West held on 4""
November, 2020.

(Copy Enclosed)

2. Housing Development Directorate

To receive update on proposed housing developments for the Municipal District of
Newcastle West.

3. Support Services Directorate
Consideration of Amendment to Standing Orders

To consider amending Standing Orders to allow for remote meetings in light of Local
Government Circular LG 07-2020 “Guidelines for Supplementary Orders regulating the
proceedings in relation to remote meetings of the Council” and “S.1. No. 445/2020 — Civil
Law and Criminal Law (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 2020 (Section 29) (Local Authorities)

(Designation) Order 2020.
(Report and Circular Enclosed)
= customerservices@limerick.ie
Ceanncheathru Chorparaideach, Cé na gCeannaithe, Luimneach © wevewalimerick.ie

Corporate Headquarters, Merchant's Quay, Limerick W @limerickCouncil
(061 - 586 000


---
*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  

10.

11.

12.

General Municipal Allocation

To review position in relation to allocations under the General Municipal Allocation
2020.

Questions submitted by Councillor L. Galvin

| will ask at the next Meeting (a) do the Council operate a paint your house scheme
in any of the Municipal for Metropolitan Districts (b) can we implement a paint your
house scheme for Local Authority housing.

| will ask at the next Meeting for an update on the works for Ward's Cross and
Devon Road Cross.

t will ask at the next Meeting (a2) who owns/ has responsibility for the old railway
store house in Abbeyfeale (b) can the building be boarded to stop antisocial
behaviour (c) has a derelict site notice been served to the owner.

Questions submitted by Councillor J. Scanian

| will ask at the next Meeting when the hedgerow at the opposite side between the
Churchview Estate and the Parochial House at Castlemahon will be tidied up.

| will ask at the next Meeting for a speed warning lighting system to be installed
along the R522 between Tiermeana Bridge and Ardnacrohy Height.

| will ask at the next Meeting that safety measures be implemented on the Pallas side
of the Priest’s house when approaching Kilmeedy along the R519 from Tireagh Cross.

NOTICES OF MOTION
Notices of Motion submitted by Councillor L. Galvin

| will move at the next Meeting that a full report be provided by Water Services and
Irish Water with regard to the electricity issues on the 4th and Sth November, which
resulted in households having no water for a number of days and that contingency
plans be put in place to ensure that water outages of this kind do not occur again if
there are issues with electricity supplies.

| will move at the next Meeting that a road crossing be provided at Abbeyfeale United
Soccer Club Abbeyfeale.


---
*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  

13.

14.

Notices of Motion submitted by Councillor J. Scanian

I will move at the next Meeting that we request a Meeting with representatives of The
Board of Management of SMI to discuss their proposed input towards resolving the
residential congestion and traffic flow difficulties along Boherbee.

I will move at the next Meeting that consideration be given to reconfiguring the traffic
flow at Ballykennedy Cross (Dore’s) in the interest of safety.


---
