*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  
MINUTES OF PROCEEDINGS AT MEETING OF THE MUNICIPAL DISTRICT OF ADARE-
RATHKEALE HELD AT ARAS SEAN FINN, NEW LINE ROAD, RATHKEALE, CO.
LIMERICK ON THURSDAY, 10™ DECEMBER, 2015, AT 9.00 A.M.

PRESENT IN THE CHAIR: Councillor R. O'Donoghue, An Cathaoirleach.

MEMBERS PRESENT:

Councillors Keary, McMahon, Neville, O’Brien and Sheahan.

OFFICIALS IN ATTENDANCE:

Director, Regional Services (Ms. C. Curley), Operations Manager, South and West Division (Mr. B.
Kennedy), A/Senior Executive Engineer, Roads, West Division Operations (Mr. B. Noonan),
Meetings Administrator (Mr. T. O’Callaghan), Assistant Staff Officer (Ms. E. Buckley).

i. Adoption of Minutes

Circulated, copy of draft Minutes of Meeting of the Municipal District of Adare-Rathkeale held on
10" November, 2015.

Proposed by Councillor Keary;
Seconded by Councillor McMahon;
And Resolved:

“That the draft Minutes, as circulated, be taken as read, adopted and signed”.

The following issues were raised by Members, after the adoption of the Minutes with the consent
of the Cathaoirleach.

Members requested an update on the concerns they had raised in relation to the capacity of the
diversionary routes around Adare to carry the extra traffic that would be generated by the
Proposed N21 Adare Western Approach Improvement Scheme. The Cathaoirleach informed the
other Members that he had visited some of the roads in question with representatives of the
Design Team and received a commitment that any diversionary routes would be surveyed and that
the Design Team would revert with proposals in relation to same.

Members discussed the need to provide footpaths from Adare to the adjacent GAA grounds and
how such works might be funded. On the proposal of Councillor Sheahan, seconded by Councillor
O'Donoghue it was agreed that this should remain on the Agenda for the District.

Members noted that a considerable number of houses on the stretch of road from Murphy's Cross
to the Town Hall in Adare, the junction of the N21 with the L1422 to the N21/R519 junction, were
not connected to the local sewerage scheme and requested that Irish Water would liaise with the
Road Design Team and bring forward any plans Irish Water may have to provide sewerage
connection to these houses and carry out any related works, in conjunction with the proposed

road works,

---
*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  
2

In response to Members queries on the examination of the One Way traffic system in Rathkeale
and in particular to the use of Well Lane, the A/Senior Executive Engineer indicated that he had
met with the Community Council who in turn had met with the Gardai and committed to liaise
with the businesses in the town. The A/Senior Executive Engineer indicated that he was willing to
work with all concerned to find a solution.

Councillor Sheahan highlighted the issue of anti-social behaviour in Askeaton and proposed that
the Council bring forward proposals to address anti-social behaviour and criminality in Askeaton.
Councillor O’Brien proposed that the Motion be amended to include the wording “with a view to
unifying the community” and Councillor McMahon proposed the Motion be further amended to
allow for input from the Traveller Accommodation Consultative Committee. There was general
agreement that both amendments should be included with the original Motion to read.

“That the Council bring forward proposals, in consultation with the Traveller Accommodation
Consultative Committee, and with a view to unifying the community, to address anti-social
behaviour and criminality in Askeaton”.

Members raised concerns regarding the adequacy of water supplies in Croom to service new
developments such as the school.

In response to Members queries on the risk of flooding due to high tides on the Foynes Estuary,
the Operations Manager, South and West Division indicated that there was no predicated
flooding, however, high tides were due for the 12", 13 and 14" December, 2015 and the
situation would be kept under review.

2: Travel and Transportation / Environment
Deputation to meet with NRA (now Transport Infrastructure Ireland)

The Director, Regional Services informed Members that one Member from each Municipal District
should be nominated to take part in a deputation to Transport Infrastructure Ireland (Til) to
discuss an agreed list of issues, relevant to the District.

Members agreed that a Meeting be arranged to decide the issues to be raised. As all Members
declared an interest in being a nominee and the date for the deputation had not yet been decided,
it was agreed that Members names would be drawn, in order, at the conclusion of the Meeting to
determine the order in which the availability of a District Member to attend the Deputation would
be established. It was agreed that minutes of proceedings at the Meeting with TIl should be
circulated to District Members.

Members noted that Til had been scheduled to attend the Travel and Transportation SPC but
apparently the item had been cancelled. On the proposal of Councillor Neville, seconded by
Councillor O'Donoghue it was agreed that the Travel & Transportation SPC be written to in order
to establish the reason for this cancellation.

---
*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  
ADJOURNED NOTICE OF MOTION

3. Notice of Motion submitted by Councillor E. O’Brien

| will move at the next Meeting for the Council to replace street lighting at the Ferrybridge
Kildimo on the N69 with suitable LED lights, in the interests of safety.

Councillor O’Brien acknowledged that works were completed at the Ferrybridge, Kildimo and
thanked the Council for same.

Discussion ensued with regard to street lighting at other locations and Members indicated that in
some cases the replacement of lights had caused shadows as the new lighting was not providing
sufficient coverage.

The A/Senior Executive Engineer indicated that he would consult with the lighting contractor,
Airtricity, and asked Members to email him details of the locations they were referring to and he
would review same.

In response to Members queries that some speed ramps were invisible at night the Operations
Manager, South and West Division indicated that a ‘white line contractor’ was on site and would

address same.

Members indicated that the ramps outside the church in Croom needed to be widened as vehicles
were driving in the centre of the road to avoid same and that an additional ramp should be
provided outside the church. The Operation Manager, South and West Division indicated that
funding had been received for the existing two ramps and he would review the cost associated
with the works requested.

QUESTIONS

4. Question submitted by Councillor T. Neville

! will ask at the next Meeting for a full update on the taking in charge of Ballyvareen Estate
including, the date of completion of the schedule of works and costs from the Water Services
Department of the Council and, once the schedule of works and costs is complete, the time line
estimated to complete the taking in charge of Ballyvareen Estate.

REPLY: The Water Services Department expect to have report finalised within the next few
days. Once the full schedule of works and costs are received the following steps
will be taken;

e The schedule of works and estimated costs are issued to the bondholder.
¢ The bondholder may then appoint their own consultant to examine the
Council’s schedule of works and costs.

---
*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  
4

¢ Once final schedule of works agreed, the consultant will make recommendation
to the bondholder.

¢ The bondholder may then either appoint their own contractor to complete
works or pay the required amount to the Council.

e Once works are completed to a satisfactory standard the formal taking in charge
process will commence, public notice is given of our intention to take the estate
in charge and then brought to members for approval.

It is difficult to provide a time line for the completion of the taking in charge but it is
hoped that the above process would be completed within the next year.

It was proposed by Councillor Neville and seconded by Councillor O’Brien that this item remain on
the agenda until resolved.

5. Question submitted by Councillor T. Neville

| will ask at the next Meeting for a detailed progress report in relation to the inadequate size
and length of the surface water pipeline at the property known to the Council in Ballinagarde,

Ballyneety.

REPLY: The pipe size at the bridge is 300 mm and during the summer was flowing full bore
on occasions. It would seem that the capacity of the culvert crossing the bridge is
insufficient to cater for winter flows and it is likely that flooding in these lands will
result. The most appropriate pipe size would appear to be 600 mm diameter
through this site. The Council will continue monitoring the situation throughout the
winter.

Councillor Neville noted in the response that during the summer, on occasions, the pipe was
flowing at full capacity. He indicated his dissatisfaction with the reply and requested that the
Council give a firmer commitment to resolve this matter given that there was a school located

nearby.

6. Question submitted by Councillor T. Neville

! will ask at the next Meeting if any progress has been made by the Council in costing the
appropriate traffic solution presented by the parents of Shanagolden N.S.

The A/Senior Executive Engineer indicated that he was liaising with the Parents’ Safety Committee
of Shanagolden NS and had received further correspondence. A footpath on the public road was
costed and the remainder of the footpath was within the curtilage of the school grounds. The
works under consideration included laying down 70 m of footpath and the removal of an ESB pole

and wall.

---
*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  
5

REPLY: The Parents’ Safety Committee of Shanagolden NS has indicated their preference is
the option at the schoo! which involves the construction of a footpath on their
curtilage. Limerick City and County Council has costed the element of public
footpath on the drawing and this can be considered under GMA or Development
Fund allocations.

Councillor Sheahan raised the need for the laying of a footpath in Kildimo from the Beer Garden to
the village and indicated that a tree was causing an obstacle and that flooding was an issue after
heavy rain. Councillor O’Brien indicated there was agreement with local landowners to remove
hedges, a gravel path was to be laid and discussions were on-going with the last affected

landowner.

NOTICES OF MOTION

7. Notice of Motion submitted by Councillor T. Neville

I will move at the next Meeting for safety provisions to be installed at Cappagh Cross
(Cappagh Castle).

REPLY: The Roads Engineer is investigating this request at the present time and a report
will be issued shortly on this matter.

Councillor Neville indicated his satisfaction with the Council’s response to this issue.

8. Notice of Motion submitted by Councillor T. Neville

! will move at the next Meeting for flood alleviation measures to be carried out in order to
protect the swimming pool water pumps at Askeaton Pool and Leisure.

Councillor Neville in proposing the Motion indicated that this facility was 51% owned by Limerick
City and County Council and was an asset that needed to be protected. He added that it was a
priority that flood alleviation works be carried out to protect the leisure centre.

In seconding the Motion, Councillor Sheahan indicated that the leisure centre was valued by the
wider community and commended the Council for protecting this amenity.

REPLY: Limerick City and County Council has appointed MHL Consulting Engineers to
prepare a flood protection scheme with a view to funding the construction of an
approved scheme through the OPW Minor Works platform at this location. Design
work is nearing completion and it is hoped to present proposal for approval to the
OPW in the short term. In the interim, local crews continue to monitor this location
at periods of high tides and take remedial action as required.


---
*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  
9. Notice of Motion submitted by Councillor E. O’Brien

| will move at the next Meeting for an update on any proposals to install traffic route lighting in
the vicinity of the Kilcornan Primary School and entrance to the Ger McDonnell all-weather
playing facility/ Kilcornan Community Centre together with enhanced traffic calming/safety
measures at this location.

The Motion was proposed by Councillor O’Brien and seconded by Councillor O'Donoghue.

REPLY: A meeting took place between members of Kilcornan Community Council, Lucy
Curtis the Tl (Transport Infrastructure Ireland) Safety Engineer and Robert
Gallagher Limerick City and County Council on Thursday 3rd December 2015 to
discuss the subject matter of the Notice of Motion. The meeting concluded with a
commitment that the concerns raised by the Community Council members would
receive immediate consideration for potential works. The Community Council will
be updated with any developments as they arise.

This matter can also be raised with the TIl in the upcoming meeting with Municipal
District Representatives.

10. Correspondence
Correspondence was noted.

Following a discussion it was agreed to hold a GMA Workshop on Friday, is” December, 2015 at
9:00 a.m.

Serer eee ene een n eee ene e nen n eens enna nese nes nee n nen eeneeeeen nea ee nese nee neeesenes a eeeeee nena nnn mene een een en eee neeneseeeeeseneneee

The following items were discussed at the conclusion of the Agenda with the consent of the
Cathaoirleach.

Councillor Neville requested an update on the issue at McDonagh Cross. The Operations Manager,
South and West Division indicated that, following consultation with the Gardai, signage and white
lining would be put in place.

Members discussed the junction improvement on the Askeaton/Rathkeale Road to Cappagh at
Graigeen Cross and questioned the expense incurred given the junction was on the orange
corridor for the proposed new Foynes to Limerick Road.

Councillor O’Brien indicated that the opening of water inlets was a small but effective measure in
solving minor issues of flooding and queried the possibility of community councils participating in
the process, under the supervision of the Council. The A/Senior Executive Engineer indicated that
the Council were mindful of the importance of removing water from the road and endeavours to
achieve this. He indicated that there were many Health and Safety issues when undertaking
improvements works on public roads and the safety of workers was paramount.

---
*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  
Councillor Sheahan raised the issue of flooding in the carpark of the Coach Inn in Kildimo. The
A/Senior Executive Engineer indicated that he would look at the matter.

Councillor Keary raised the issue of the rates being charged by the Machinery Yard for the velocity
patcher and the potential to hire same externally. The Operations Manager, South and West
Division indicated that he would discuss the matter with the Machinery Yard.

Councillor Neville queried if there was an increase in the roads budget given the recovery in the
economy, the reduction in the non-payment of rates and the opening of new businesses. The
Operations Manager, South and West Division indicated that the budget allocation for 2016 was
similar to the previous year and that since 2008 grant funding had been cut substantially.

Councillor McMahon queried if a response had been received from the Ambulance Service
regarding ambulance response times. The Meetings Administrator informed her that no response

had been received.

Councillor McMahon indicated that a comprehensive plan was required for street cleaning in
Rathkeale over the Christmas period. The A/Senior Executive Engineer indicated that due to the
increase of population there may be an increase of litter over the Christmas period and additional
hours would be allocated to street cleaning during that time.

Councillor O’Donoghue thanked vintage clubs for their hard work in raising money for local
charities. He added that vintage clubs help preserve our heritage and expressed his thanks to the
media, Gardai and Council for their help in facilitating these events. Following discussion it was
agreed that Councillor O’Donoghue would write to these clubs, on behalf of the Members of the
Municipal District of Adare-Rathkeale, to express the gratitude of the District.

Councillor Keary expressed concern about rumours that he and other Members had used their
position to influence the selection of the preferred route corridor (orange route) for the new
Foynes to Limerick Road. He stressed that he had played no part in the selection process. He
proposed that an executive summary outlining the background to the selection process for the
orange route be provided to Members and this was seconded by Councillor McMahon. Members
were Critical that they had not received advanced notice of the decision and indicated that people,
living on the selected route, had concerns in relation to road closures, road crossings, house
demolition and the compulsory purchase of farmland. Members indicated that better
communication was needed to keep the public informed on the process.

Signed:
Cathaoirleach

Dated:

---
