1

**MINUTES OF PROCEEDINGS AT MEETING OF THE MUNICIPAL DISTRICT OF ADARE-**

**RATHKEALE HELD IN ÁRAS SEÁN FINN, NEW LINE ROAD, RATHKEALE, CO. LIMERICK ON**

**TUESDAY, 5TH** **DECEMBER, 2017 AT 5.00 P.M.**

**PRESENT IN THE CHAIR:**

Councillor R. O’Donoghue, An Cathaoirleach.

**MEMBERS PRESENT:**

Councillors Keary, McMahon, O’Brien, Sheahan and Teskey.

**OFFICIALS IN ATTENDANCE:**

Director, Regional Services (Ms. C. Curley), A/Senior Engineer (Mr. G. O’Connor), A/Senior

Executive Engineer, Service Operations West Division (Mr. K. Murphy), Meetings

Administrator (Mr. T. O’Callaghan), Executive Engineer (Mr. J. O’Keeffe).

**1.**

**Adoption of Minutes**

**(a)**

Circulated, copy of draft Minutes of Meeting of the Municipal District of Adare-

Rathkeale JPC Subcommittee held on 9th November, 2017.

Proposed by Councillor O’Brien;

Seconded by Councillor McMahon;

And Resolved:

“That the draft Minutes, as circulated, be taken as read, adopted and signed”.

**(b)**

Circulated, copy of draft Minutes of Meeting of the Municipal District of Adare-

Rathkeale held on 9th November, 2017

Proposed by Councillor O’Brien;

Seconded by Councillor Keary;

And Resolved:

“That the draft Minutes, as circulated, be taken as read, adopted and signed”.

**(c)**

Circulated, copy of draft Minutes of Special Meeting of the Municipal District of

Adare-Rathkeale held on 15th November, 2017.

Proposed by Councillor O’Brien;

Seconded by Councillor Keary;

And Resolved:

“That the draft Minutes, as circulated, be taken as read, adopted and signed”.
---
2

**(d)**

Circulated, copy of draft Minutes of Special Meeting of the Municipal District of

Adare-Rathkeale held on 27th November, 2017.

Proposed by Councillor Keary;

Seconded by Councillor McMahon;

And Resolved:

“That the draft Minutes, as circulated, be taken as read, adopted and signed”.

**2.**

**Service Operations Directorate – Operations and Maintenance Services**

**Speed Limit Review - Draft Speed Limit Bye-Laws for National and Non-National Roads.**

Circulated, Report of the Acting Senior Engineer, Operations and Maintenance Services,

dated 21st November, 2017 setting out the background to the speed limit review and the

preparation of related Draft Bye Laws for Non National Roads and National Roads. It was

noted that submissions, proposing changes to the Bye Laws, were assessed in accordance

with “Guidelines for Setting and Managing Speed Limits in Ireland” (March, 2015) and that

an Engineer’s Report, with recommendations, was completed in respect of each location. It

was also noted that workshops had been held with Members in each District and issues

raised by Members were reviewed by the Council Executive or Transport Infrastructure

Ireland (TII), as appropriate, and the outcome of these reviews was now being presented to

the District Members for consideration. The report noted that Members’ approval was

sought to proceed with the publication of Draft Byelaws for public consultation, in

accordance with the aforementioned guidelines.

Also circulated:

• National Road Speed Limit Review 2015-2017, County Limerick dated 29th September,

2017;

• National Road Speed Limit Review 2015-2017, Limerick National Road Draft Bye-Laws;

• Limerick City and County Council, County Limerick Road Traffic Special Speed Limit

Byelaws 2018 for Regional and Local Roads (Draft);

• Speed Limit Review Submissions received for the Municipal District of Adare-Rathkeale

for Non-National Roads.

The A/Senior Engineer reviewed the proposed speed limit changes to apply on national

roads and outlined the discussions that had taken place with TII in this regard and TII’s

efforts to introduce a consistent speed limit approach at similar locations, to reduce driver

frustration.

With regard to Kilcornan, Members highlighted the need to align speed limits with

requested traffic calming measures. The following additional points were made by

Members in relation to Kilcornan :

• The speed limit at the Coach Inn should be reduced to 60 km/hr to reflect the adjacent

karting business, the junction to Pallaskenry and the traffic generated by the funeral
---
3

parlour in Pallaskenry. The A/Senior Engineer noted that there was merit in this

proposal and undertook to engage with TII in relation to same.

• Speed reductions on the eastern side of Kilcornan should commence beyond the church

and burial ground to take account of the extent of elderly people exiting the church

grounds and should be reduced to 60 km/hr. The A/Senior Engineer noted discussions

that had taken place with TII in this regard and pointed out that TII considered this an

isolated hazard and that the related limits set out in the guidelines should apply.

Members discussed the procedures relating to the making of submissions on the proposed

byelaws and expressed concern that issues they were raising were not being taken on

board. On the proposal of Councillor Sheahan, seconded by Councillor O’Brien, it was

requested that a speed limit of 60 km/hr apply from beyond the church at Kilcornan up to

the junction at the Coach Inn and that this should be regarded as a submission on the Draft

Byelaws.

Councillor Keary queried the role played by RPS on behalf of TII in the allocation of speed

limits on National Roads and noted that the Council had staff qualified to carry out this

work. On the proposal of Councillor Keary, seconded by Councillor Sheahan, it was agreed

that the District should submit a Freedom of Information request to TII requesting the value

of the contract awarded to RPS nationally, and in relation to Limerick, in association with

the review of speed limits on national roads.

Members discussed the public consultation processes associated with the review of speed

limits and the low number of submissions made in relation to same. On the proposal of

Councillor Sheahan, seconded by Councillor Keary, it was agreed that the District request TII

to hold half day briefing sessions in Banogue, Kilcornan, Foynes, Kildimo and Loughill to

highlight the proposed speed limits at these locations and to facilitate the consultation

process.

On the proposal of Councillor O’Donoghue, seconded by Councillor McMahon, it was agreed

that the Draft Byelaws, as circulated, proceed to the consultation process and the Director,

Regional Services noted the importance of encouraging the public to engage with same.

**3.**

**General Municipal Allocation (GMA) 2017**

On the proposal of Councillor Teskey, seconded by Councillor McMahon, the following

allocations under the GMA 2017 for the Municipal District of Adare-Rathkeale, were agreed:

• Cappagh GAA Club

€2,000

• Foynes Yacht Club

€2,000

• Line marking at Fire Station in Rathkeale and at Ballysteen School

€ 950

(Limerick City and County Council)

• Cutting of trees at St. Mary’s Park, Rathkeale

€ 800

(Limerick City and County Council)

• Askeaton Mens Shed

€1,500

• Foynes Community – Local History Walk

€1,000

• Ballysteen Community Council

€1,500
---
4

• Speed Ramp Askeaton (Limerick City and County Council)

€2,000

• Shanagolden Youth Group (Community Council Run)

€ 500

• Essential Repairs – to be carried out by John Moloney (Roads)

€2,000

Kilmallock Office

• Kilfinny School Board

€4,000

**4.**

**Service Operations – Planning & Environmental Services**

**Taking-In-Charge of An Curran Estate, Pallaskenry**

Circulated, report of the Staff Officer, Planning and Environmental Services dated 23rd

November, 2017 setting out the position in relation to the taking in charge of An Curran

Estate. The report was noted by Members.

**5.**

**Service Operations – Operations & Maintenance Services**

**Traffic Calming at Kilcornan**

Circulated, report of the Senior Executive Engineer, Operations & Maintenance Services

dated 29th November, 2017 giving an update in relation to proposed traffic calming

measures at Kilcornan. Members noted the contents of Oireachtas reports on this issue and

the Director, Regional Services noted that the Council was still awaiting TII to formally set

out its position on Kilcornan.

On the proposal of Councillor Sheahan, seconded by Councillor O’Donoghue, it was agreed

that the District should write to Deputy Tom Neville to acknowledge and thank him for his

continued interest and support in progressing these works.

**6.**

**Flooding Issues in Askeaton**

Circulated, report of the A/Senior Executive Engineer, Service Operations West Division

dated 29th November, 2017 setting out the position in relation to proposals to address

flooding issues at Askeaton. The report was noted by Members.

**7.**

**Footpath from Kildimo to the Beer Garden Public House**

Circulated, report of the Senior Executive Engineer, Design and Delivery dated 29th

November, 2017 setting out the position in relation to the completion of the footpath at this

location. Members noted the possible change in approach reflected in the report,

compared to previous reports and requested that same be explained at the next meeting.

**8.**

**Drainage Issues at Courtmatrix**

Circulated, report of the A/Senior Executive Engineer, Service Operations West Division

dated 1st December, 2017 setting out the position with regard to the ownership of a site at

Courtmatrix and the Council’s plans to progress works there.
---
5

Members noted the constant threat of flooding at this location and that the materials

required for the works had already been purchased. The A/Senior Executive Engineer,

Service Operations noted that works would commence as soon as the required legal

agreement was in place.

**9.**

**Pedestrian Controlled Crossing for Adare**

Circulated, report of the Senior Executive Engineer, Operations & Maintenance Services

dated 29th November, 2017 setting out the position in relation to the request to install a

pedestrian controlled crossing in Adare. It was agreed that this item should remain on the

agenda for District meetings.

**QUESTIONS**

**10.**

**Question submitted by Councillor C. McMahon**

**I will ask at the next Meeting if Limerick City and County Council has a disability access**

**plan for all towns and villages in the Adare-Rathkeale District. In particular, I am asking, in**

**relation to Ballyhahill village, is there a specific disability access plan for this village in light**

**of new footpaths etc.**

**REPLY**:

Footpath repair works were carried out during the year in Ballyhahill. Works

of this nature should be carried out having regard to ‘Recommendation for

Site Development Works for Housing Areas’ which refers to footpaths being

‘dished at crossing-points and at all road junctions and vehicular access, to

facilitate the disabled and others’.

Universal design principles are incorporated into all public realms and built

environment projects. All new development, including housing must have

regard to accessibility issues in the context of design, building and

management of buildings and spaces so that they can be readily accessed

and used by everyone, regardless of age, size, ability or disability.

It is the policy of Limerick City and County Council to ensure that its public

realm is universally accessible and the annual budget for the Council provides

funding for upgrading and improvement of footpaths in this regard.

**11.**

**Question submitted by Councillor A. Teskey**

**I will ask at the next Meeting how many successful prosecutions have been made by this**

**authority with regards to temporary dwellings being illegally parked within this District.**

**REPLY**:

Six successful prosecutions for unauthorised caravans were taken by Limerick

City and County Council in the Adare - Rathkeale Municipal District in 2016.

So far in 2017 eleven Enforcement Notices have been issued in respect of

unauthorised caravans, seven of these notices have been complied with and
---
6

the other four have been referred for prosecution. It is expected to have

these four cases before Newcastle West District Court on 5th December

2017.

**12.**

**Question submitted by Councillor A. Teskey**

**I will ask at the next Meeting what is the update in relation to Cappagh Cross with regard**

**to the improvements and improvements of signage at this location.**

**REPLY:**

Limerick City and County Council have been in contact with the Insurer last

week with regards the incident at Cappagh Cross. We will be again furnishing

them with the costs associated and photos of the location. Once funding is

granted the works will be carried out immediately. The vehicle involved in the

accident was a hire car and a number of insurance companies are involved,

hence the delay.

**NOTICES OF MOTION**

**13.**

**Notice of Motion submitted by Councillor A. Teskey**

**I will move at the next Meeting that this authority carry out an investigation into the**

**recent flooding in Foynes which in turn caused severe flooding to the Foynes Flying Boat**

**Museum.**

The Motion was proposed by Councillor Teskey and seconded by Councillor Keary.

In proposing the Motion Councillor Teskey noted that the Museum at Foynes employed

twenty five people and made a significant contribution to tourism in the region. He noted

that the new flood defence works at Foynes had prevented the discharge of the flood

waters and requested that any investigation into the incident should seek to ensure that a

recurrence of same can not take place.

**REPLY**:

Following the recent flooding that occurred in Foynes on 11th November last,

an investigation into the cause of the flooding has commenced. Meetings

and discussions with the Shannon Foynes Port Company and the Office of

Public Works (OPW) are ongoing. A number of temporary measures have

been agreed with the Port Company, should a similar event occur before a

permanent solution is in place.

Members supported the Motion and discussed ownership of the Museum and the insurance

implication of the flooding and requested a report for the next meeting.

**14.**

**Notice of Motion submitted by Councillor A. Teskey**

**I will move at the next Meeting that this authority erect lighting at Creeves Cross if**

**funding or a scheme were to become available.**
---
7

The Motion was proposed by Councillor Teskey. Members referred to a previous

arrangement in Limerick County Council whereby each Member was allocated two

discretionary street lights each year and on the proposal of Councillor Sheahan, seconded by

Councillor Teskey, it was proposed that this arrangement should be considered as part of

the budget process.

Members noted the cost of installing public lighting, a considerable portion of which was

attributed to the provision of electric power to the unit, and highlighted the potential

benefits of considering the use of solar power to power one off street lights.

**15.**

**Notice of Motion submitted by Councillor S. Keary**

**I will move at the next Meeting that the €350,000 received by this Authority from the sale**

**of the old Courthouse Building in Adare Village be used as capital investment in a much**

**needed car park for Adare Village to help alleviate traffic congestion.**

The Motion was proposed by Councillor Keary.

Councillor O’Brien proposed an amendment to the Motion which suggested that the

proceeds from the sale of the Old Courthouse in Adare should be used as capital investment

for projects in Adare.

Councillor Sheahan proposed an amendment to the Motion which suggested that the

proceeds from the sale of the Old Courthouse in Adare should be used as capital investment

for projects in the District and this was seconded by Councillor O’Donoghue.

The Director, Regional Services informed the Members that the proceeds of such sales were

not ring-fenced in this fashion but were recorded against capital receipts, towards the

delivery of the Capital Plan. She noted a number of appropriate projects in the District’s

Local Area Plans in need of funding and the need to lever funding associated with the

Council’s Tourism Strategy.

Following discussion it was agreed that a vote would be taken on the amended Motion

proposed by Councillor Sheahan and seconded by Councillor O’Donoghue :

“That the €350,000 received by this Authority from the sale of the Old Courthouse Building

in Adare Village be used as capital investment for projects in the Municipal District of Adare-

Rathkeale”.

The result of the vote was as follows :

For:

Councillors McMahon, O’Donoghue, Sheahan and Teskey.

Against:

Councillors Keary and O’Brien.
---
8

The Cathaoirleach declared the amended Motion carried.

**Rapid Grant Scheme 2017**

With the consent of the Cathaoirleach, the Director, Regional Services circulated report of

the Chief Officer, Limerick LCDC dated 5th December, 2017 setting out recommendation of

the LCDC for an allocation under the Rapid Grant Scheme 2017.

Proposed by Councillor Sheahan;

Seconded by Councillor O’Donoghue;

And Resolved:

“That an allocation of €16,125 be made to Rathkeale Community Childcare CLG under the

Rapid Grant Scheme 2017 and in accordance with the circulated report dated 5th December,

2017”.

**16.**

**Correspondence**

Correspondence, as circulated, was noted by Members.

At the conclusion of the agenda and with the consent of the Cathaoirleach, the following

items were raised by Members :

• Members discussed the issue of the proposed exit to Adare from the proposed new

Limerick to Foynes Road and following discussion Councillor Keary, Mayor of the City

and County of Limerick agreed that a meeting of the Full Council in this regard should be

held on the 9th January, 2018 at 3.00 p.m.

• Councillor Sheahan noted that Askeaton Pool and Leisure Centre was celebrating its 10th

Anniversary on the 16th January, 2018 and invited his fellow Members to participate in

same.

• Councillor Teskey highlighted the need to install a gate at the steps adjacent to the Bank

of Ireland in Rathkeale.

• Councillor Teskey requested an update on the installation of speed ramps and raised the

issue of providing electricity to play grounds.

• Councillor McMahon raised the issue of Bord Gáis using large amounts of water to cool

equipment associated with their works at Ballyhahill and the effect this was having on

local water supply.

This concluded the Meeting.

Signed :

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

**Cathaoirleach**

Dated:

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
---
