[Original file](https://www.limerick.ie/sites/default/files/media/documents/2017-06/Agenda%20-%20Municipal%20District%20of%20Newcastle%20West%20-%201st%20June%202016.pdf)

---
*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  
i

ar™N ,
Limerick
CITY & COUNTY

COUNCIL

26" May, 2016.

Seirbhisi Corparéideacha agus Bainistiocht Athruithe,
Comhairle Cathrach agus Contae Luimnigh,

Cé na gCeannaithe,

Luimneach

Corporate Services and Change Management,
Limerick City and County Council,

Merchants Quay,

Limerick

t: +353 (0) 61 407 100
f: +353 (0) 61 415 266

To: The Cathaoirleach and Each Member of the Municipal District of Newcastle West _

A Chomhairleoir, a chara,

You are requested to attend a Meeting of the Municipal District of Newcastle West to be held at Aras
William Smith OBrien, Newcastle West, Co. Limerick, on Wednesday, 1* June, 2016 at 10.00 a.m.

The business to be transacted is set out on the appended Agenda.

Is mise le meas,

> Yaove

na Knox,
Meetings Administrator.

AGENDA

1. Minutes

To adopt Minutes of the Meeting of Municipal District of Newcastle West held on 4"" May,

2016.
2) Support Services Directorate

Corporate Services

(a) Annual Meeting

(Copy Enclosed)

To agree date for Annual Meeting of the Municipal District of Newcastle West.

(b) July Meeting

To agree date for July Meeting of the Municipal District of Newcastle West.

Ceanncheathru Chorparéideach, Cé na gCeannaithe, Luimneach
Corporate Headquarters, Merchants Quay, Limerick

2
& wow limerick.ie
w @LimerickCouncil


---
*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  
(c) Municipal Reception

To consider the grant of a Municipal Reception to honour Newcastle West GAA for their
success at under 16 level (Minor and Senior level Championship) last year in accordance with
Section 74 of the Local Government, Act, 2001, as amended.

Service Operations Directorate
Cedarville Estate, Abbeyfeale

Update on installation of double yellow lines at Cedarville Estate, Abbeyfeale.

Economic Development Directorate

To receive briefing on the preparation of a Heritage Plan for Limerick.

Social Development Directorate

To consider the adoption of a Statement of Consistency on the Draft Local Economic and
Community Plan (LECP) 2016-2021.

(Reports enclosed)

General Municipal Allocation (GMA)

To review position in relation to allocations under the Municipal District Special Projects
General Municipal Allocation (GMA) 2016.

UESTIONS
Questions submitted by Councillor L. Galvin

| will ask at the next Meeting (a) for a detailed report/ discussion on the Great Southern Trail
footpath in Abbeyfeale; (b) Investment in the crossings; {c) signage on the N21 and on the
line itself; (d) update on the Website; (e) what Directorate does it come under and who has
responsibility; (f) what grants have been drawn down; (g) what is the budget for

maintenance.

| will ask at the next Meeting for an update on Knocknagorna Bridge (a) when works will
commence; (b) what is the total budget allocation; (c) how long will it take to complete the
works.

| will ask at the next Meeting for an update on the proposed works for Castletown/Ballyagran
villages arising from the Municipal District Meeting held in the hall in Castletown.


---
*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  
10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

17.

18.

Question submitted by Councillor J. Scanlan

| will ask at the next Meeting if road lining will be renewed in the Broadford village area.
uestion submi ncillor S. Browne

| will ask at the next Meeting when the remaining barriers will be installed on the left hand
side of the New Barnagh Road going down hill.

NOTICES OF MOTION

Notices of Motion submitted by Councillor L. Galvin

| will move at the next Meeting that a bus bay be provided at Barnagh, east bound, to cater
for pedestrians getting on or off to use the Great Southern Trail.

| will move at the next Meeting that a kerb and footpath be included in the road programme
in Mountcollins Village from the Caher river bridge up to John Reilly's Junction.

Notices of Motion submitted by Councillor S. Browne

| will move at the next Meeting that the road from Cleanglass South to Cleanglass North,
Tournafulla be resurfaced as a matter of urgency as it is unsafe for road users.

| will move at the next Meeting that a plaque be erected on the Barnagh Road in
remembrance of those who lost their lives there.

Noti i mi

| will move at the next Meeting that road lining be placed at the junctions between (a) Arra
View and (b) Hawthorne Estates, Newcastle West with the local road.

| will move at the next Meeting that immediate action be taken to repair/renew the road
through Glin town centre from the N69 Junction through Main Street and towards the local
Football Field.

Notice of Motion submitted by Councillor M. Collins

| will move at the next Meeting that funding be provided for a set down area outside
Glengurt National School (National School in Tournafulla) to allow safe access and set down

for those attending the school.


---
