MINUTES OF PROCEEDINGS AT MEETING OF THE MUNICIPAL DISTRICT

OF NEWCASTLE WEST HELD IN ÁRAS WILLIAM SMITH OBRIEN,

GORTBOY, NEWCASTLE WEST, CO. LIMERICK, ON WEDNESDAY, 2ND

JULY, 2014, AT 10.00 A.M.

PRESENT IN THE CHAIR:  Councillor Jerome Scanlan.

MEMBERS PRESENT:

Councillors Browne, Collins, Foley, Galvin and Sheahan.

OFFICIALS IN ATTENDANCE:

Director of Travel & Transportation (Mr. P. Crowe), Administrative Officer, Corporate

Services (Ms. T. Knox), Senior Executive Engineer (Mr. R. Gallagher), Executive Engineer

(Mr. M. Collins), Executive Engineer, (Mr. P. Vallely), Executive Engineer (Ms. A. Mellett),

Assistant Staff Officer, (Ms. M. McCarthy).

1.

Adoption of Minutes:

The Minutes of the Newcastle West Area Committee Meeting held on 7th May, 2014

were noted.

Circulated, copy of draft Minutes of the Inaugural Meeting of the Municipal District of

Newcastle West held on 11th June, 2014.

Proposed by Councillor Galvin;

Seconded by Councillor Collins;

And Resolved:

“That the draft Minutes, as circulated, be taken as read and adopted and signed”.

2.

Schedule of Meetings:

It was agreed that Meetings of the Municipal District of Newcastle West would be

held on the first Wednesday of every month at 10.00 a.m. It was noted that the next

Meeting would take place on Wednesday, 3rd September, 2014 at 10.00 a.m.
---
2

3.

Travel and Transportation:

Part 8 Procedure – N21 Newcastle West Pavement Improvement

and Pedestrian Facilities Scheme 2014.

Circulated, report of the Director of Travel and Transportation dated the 24th June,

2014, enclosing Chief Executive’s Report in relation to N21 Newcastle West

Pavement Improvement and Pedestrian Facilities Scheme 2014.

The Chief Executive’s Report set out details of the proposed development under a

number of headings and was prepared and submitted to the Members pursuant to

Section 179 (3)(a) of the Planning and Development Acts, 2000-2013, and Part 8 of

the Planning and Development Regulations, 2001-2013.

The report stated that the scheme consisted of road reconstruction and resurfacing,

traffic calming by means of road narrowing, where appropriate, enhanced footpath

facilities, an uncontrolled pedestrian crossing, relocated service poles on footpath

and a new cycle/pedestrian footbridge across the River Arra. A realignment of the

junction between the Regional Road (R522) and the National Road (N21) was also

included in the works. The plans and particulars went on public display from

Monday, 24th March, 2014 to Friday, 9th May, 2014.

It was noted that a total of five written submissions/observations had been received

during the period of public consultation.

In response to queries regarding the cost of the scheme, it was noted that the

overall scheme would cost in the region of €950,000, with the bridge alone costing

in excess of €100,000.

While there was a positive response from the Members in general, they expressed

concern in relation to the redesign of the junction between the Regional Road

(R522) and the National Road (N21). The Members put forward several

alternatives to the proposed design.

In response, the Senior Executive Engineer stated that the plans could not be

altered as it was necessary to provide safety measures to comply with current

requirements/standards.

On the proposal of Councillor Sheahan, seconded by Councillor Scanlan it was

agreed to recommend the scheme for approval to the full Council.

Councillor Collins stated that he was not in agreement with the scheme, as

presented, and did not support the proposal.
---
3

Questions submitted by Councillor J. Scanlan:

4.

***“I will ask at our July Meeting as to when renewal work will occur on the***

***footpaths and on the roads within Hazel Grove Newcastle West”.***

It was stated that there was no budget provision in place but that it could be

included, for consideration, as part of the Development Fund for 2015.

5.

***“I will ask that appropriate directional signage be put in place at Castletown***

***Conyers towards the local cemetery there”.***

It was stated that signage would be provided at that location within the following

month or so.

6.

***“I will ask for a progress report on the works consequent*** ***to the realisation of***

***bonds at The Glebe, Monagea, and Carrig Desmond, Newcastle West, and for***

***an update position with regard to Daar Riverview and Arraview**”**.***

The Executive Engineer (M. Collins) gave an up-date as follows:-

The Glebe, Monagea: Traffic calming substantially complete.

Carrig Desmond: Snag list agreed with banks. Banks now engaged with

developer to carry out the works.

Daar Riverview: No progress with NAMA.

Arraview: Enforcement being taken against NAMA.

The Members asked for a Policy Document to be drafted, by the appropriate

Strategic Policy Committee, on how to deal with partially finished Housing Estates.

Questions submitted by Councillor L. Galvin:

7.

***“I will ask at the next meeting for the road number to be placed at the***

***entrance to Maura O’Sullivan’s property at Dromcollogher”.***

It was stated that there was no programme in place at present.

8.

***“I will ask at the next meeting (a) what Local Authority is responsible for the***

***upkeep of the creamery bridge Mountcollins and (b) can a plan be put in place***

***to repair it”.***

It was noted that this bridge was the responsibility of both Limerick City and County

Council and Kerry County Council. It was agreed that the matter would be raised

with Castleisland Area Office.
---
4

9.

***“I will ask for an up**-date on the river at the back of the Town Park,***

***Abbeyfeale, with regard to land erosion that is supplying water to the parish***

***of Abbeyfeale”.***

It was stated that Irish Water were looking at intake and integrity of the water supply

of Abbeyfeale Town.

Notice of Motion submitted by Councillor L. Galvin:

10.

***“I*** ***will move at the next meeting that the constant flooding problem be***

***addressed on the Dually Road (above Dan Kennedy’s gate). This is an***

***ongoing i**ssue that needs to be addressed”.***

It was agreed that Mr. P. Vallely, Executive Engineer, would meet with Mr. Dan

Kennedy to discuss the matter.

The Meetings Administrator reminded Members to submit the following:-

(a) Statements and Declarations for Election Expenditure by 21st August;

(b) Ethics Forms by 14th July, 2014.

This concluded the Meeting.

Signed:

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

Cathaoirleach

Dated:

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
---
