**MINUTES OF PROCEEDINGS AT SPECIAL MEETING OF THE MUNICIPAL DISTRICT OF**

**ADARE-RATHKEALE HELD IN ÁRAS SEÁN FINN, NEW LINE ROAD, RATHKEALE, CO.**

**LIMERICK ON TUESDAY, 14TH** **MARCH, 2017, AT 2.00 P.M.**

**PRESENT IN THE CHAIR:**

Councillor A. Teskey, An Cathaoirleach.

**MEMBERS PRESENT:**

Councillors Keary, O’Donoghue and Sheahan.

**APOLIGIES:**

Apologies for their inability to attend had been received from Councillors McMahon and

O’Brien.

**OFFICIALS IN ATTENDANCE:**

Director, Regional Services (Ms. C. Curley), Meetings Administrator (Mr. T. O’Callaghan).

Chief Superintendent, David Sheehan, Superintendent, Tom O’Connor and Inspector Alan

Cullen.

**1.**

**Policing Issues**

The Cathaoirleach welcomed everyone to the Meeting which had been called in order to look

to the policing of Rathkeale during the Christmas period 2017 and with a view to resolving

issues that had arisen during this period in 2016. Members highlighted the following law and

order issues that escalate in Rathkeale during the Christmas period.

• Speeding, dangerous driving and traffic offences including the blocking of streets by

vehicles;

• The unauthorised parking of temporary dwellings/caravans;

• The large number of unsupervised children at large on the streets in the evening and at

night causing distress to the elderly and at risk of being knocked down by passing

traffic;

• The extent of littering and dumping.

Members noted the large number of weddings held over the Christmas period, the extent to

which the population increases and the need for visible extra Garda resources to cope with

same. Members also noted the need for the Council to allocate a litter warden to Rathkeale

for the period and the need to address the issue of unauthorised parking of caravans and

unauthorised sites.---
2

Chief Inspector Sheehan noted that Ballingarry Garda station, which had been closed for some

time, had been reopened on 5th December, 2016. He reviewed the detected crime statistics

for Rathkeale over the Christmas period which highlighted the extent of Garda activity and

noted that 60 overtime tours had operated over a 3 week period, as well as successful

Criminal Assets Bureau (CAB) operations. He noted the need for the Council and the Gardaí to

come together to identify the issues that each had the legal powers to address and stressed

that the Gardaí could only act within the law.

Members noted that byelaws had been put in place regulating the use of temporary dwellings

in Rathkeale and stressed the need for a facilitator to be put in place, as agreed, to identify the

full range of issues to be addressed.

The Cathaoirleach thanked the Gardaí for their contribution and commitments and looked

forward to further meetings in this regard.

This concluded the Meeting.

Signed:

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

**Cathaoirleach**

Dated:

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_---
