**MINUTES OF MEETING OF LIMERICK CITY AND COUNTY COUNCIL HOME AND SOCIAL**

**DEVELOPMENT SPC**

A meeting of Limerick City and County Council, Home and Social Development Strategic Policy

Committee was held on **the 22nd of September** by Cisco WebEx.

**In Attendance:** An Cathaoirleach, Cllr. Michael Murphy

**SPC Members Present:** Cllr. Sharon Benson**,** Cllr. James Collins

Cllr. Sean Hartigan, Cllr. Stephen Keary, Cllr. Sarah Kiely, Cllr. Fergus Kilcoyne

Cllr. Joe Leddin, Cllr. Tom Ruddle, Cllr. Conor Sheehan, Cllr. Brigid Teefy, Cllr. Mike Donegan, Cllr.

Catherine Slattery, Mr. P.J O’Grady, Ms. Dee Ryan, Mr, Michael McNamara, Cllr John Costelloe.

**In Attendance:**

Ms. Aoife Duke, Director of Service, Housing Development

Ms. Sarah Newell, A/Senior Executive Planner, Housing Development

Mr. Rory Culhane, A/Assistant Staff Officer, Housing Development

Ms. Jeannine Butler, Clerical Officer, Housing Development

Mr. Eoin Lehane, Clerical Officer, Housing Development

Mr. Seamus Hanrahan, A/Director of Service, Capital Investment

Ms. Patricia Phillips, Administrative Officer, Housing Support

Mr. Rob Lowth, A/Senior Executive Officer, Housing Support

Ms. Triona O’Connor, Homeless Ops Programme Manager, Housing Support

Ms. Astrid Coughlan, Assistant Planner, Housing Development

Ms. Maria Donoghue, Senior Executive Officer, Housing Development

Mr. Sean O’Kane, Co-Op Student, Housing Development

**Apologies:**, Cllr. Eddie Ryan, Cllr. Adam Teskey

**Welcome by Chairperson** **–** **Cllr. Michael Murphy**

Chair opened up meeting by welcoming everyone to the September SPC and thanked everyone for

joining today’s meeting and the the Housing Workshops from the 2nd of

September.

**Item 1: Confirm minutes from meeting held on June 22nd** **2020**

**Proposed: Cllr. Catherine Slattery**

**Seconded: Cllr. Brigid Teefy**

**Item 2: Matters arising from the Minutes**



Aoife Duke, Director of Service, Housing Development gave an update on PPN nominations –

currently SPC membership stands at 16 councillors and 8 PPN nominees. The PPN elections

closed Sunday 20th September and 3 candidates were put forward and will automatically be

elected. The elected candidates will be ratified at full Council meeting on the 28th

September. The newly elected PPN members will join us at our next H&S SPC meeting.---


Cllr. Leddin asked for minutes of previous meeting and agenda to be uploaded to

Sharepoint.

**Item 3: To Consider and endorse the report and recommendations of the September Housing**

**Workshop relating to:**



**Adare Pilot for Affordable Sites**



**Private Downsizing Scheme**



**Turnkey** **–** **Delivering Mixed Tenure Developments**

**Adare Pilot for Affordable Sites** **–** **Sarah Newell**

Sarah Newell, Executive Planner, Housing Development thanked everyone for feedback received and

for filling out the MyPoint survey.

The proposed policy is: Council Initiated Serviced Sites for Affordable Homes

To proceed with a pilot in Adare, where Limerick City and County Council delivers serviced building

plots on land it owns and investigates a number of measures (land value, reduced contributions) to

enable an affordable self-build mortgage to eligible households.

**Proposed: Cllr. Sean Hartigan**

**Seconded: Cllr. Joe Leddin**

It was noted that the SPC forum and housing newsletter will be used to give updates on progress of

this scheme.

Ms. Newell proceeded to go through the results of the MyPoint questionnaire for the Adare Pilot for

Affordable Sites -

Do you agree with using land value as a discount for eligible applicants to build their own home:

 100% Agree

2. Do you have any other ideas that LCCC can legally administer to provide a further subsidy other

than land value – e.g., reduced or zero development contributions?

 Reduced development contributions

 If reduced or zero development contributions can also be used then perhaps in certain situations

this should be considered instead of using the land value as a discount(deferred payment).

 I don’t think the word discount should be used as it is a deference of payment rather than a

discount.

3. Do you agree with the idea of having an AHB such as O Cualann to manage resident’s charter, the

build out and ensure design consistency with self build dwellings?

 84% Agree---
 16% Disagree

• 3a.Are there other options to control/manage the process

 Housing Development Directorate of LCCC

4. Would this pilot work in other County towns and villages – where should LCCC focus next after

Adare?

 100%

5. Where should LCCC focus next after Adare? - Any identifed suitable area

 County towns and villages where we have pockets of land and could a achieve a speedy uptake

resulting in much needed regeneration of same. Whilst happy with Adare project there are

towns/villages in much more need of regeneration.

 LCCC should focus on areas located within the Metro Area

 Castleconnell

 Newcastle West

 Croom & Ballingarry

Ms. Newell noted that we will take the feedback in terms of the development contributions. A

question on whether we could reduce or even zero them for affordable sites will be put to Forward

Planning who will be carrying out a review of the continued scheme.

It was also noted by Ms. Newell that the Housing Development Directorate will be heavily involved

with the AHB when it comes to the process of managing resident’s charter, the build out and

ensuring design consistency with self-build dwellings.

Ms. Newell took into account the feedback relating to focusing on the Metro Areas, Castleconnell,

Newcastlewest, Croom and Ballingarry as the potential next areas to look at with this type of

scheme.

A discussion took place around this and the main points were:



Cllr. Sharon Benson noted that she was unhappy with proposal as she feels that it is only the

people earning the upper threshold that can afford to buy into this scheme. Ms. Newell

clarified that the numbers used in the presentation were indicative only and the target

cohort were households between 40k and 60k. Where no more than 35% of their net

income would go on mortgage payment. Ms. Newell also noted that the scheme must

deliver on its objectives: that the discount and mortgage are affordable.



It was noted that Housing Development will be liaising with the Department of Housing,

Local Government and Heritage to ensure that this scheme will be correct and fair.



Ms. Dee Ryan asked if we are we considering this scheme as another way of reducing the

amount of one off rural developments. Ms. Newell replied that this *is* a potential option to---
the one off rural developments and listed the eligibility for scheme, which will be circulated

to SPC members.



Ms. Ryan suggested if it is possible to extend the criteria that we consider including it as an

incentive. Ms. Newell welcomed suggestion and clarified this will be investigated further as

part of the criteria.

**Private Downsizing Scheme** **–** **Sarah Newell**

Ms. Newell again thanked everyone for filling in the MyPoint Survey.

The proposed policy is: To proceed with a pilot private Downsizing Scheme for 1 year following

adoption at Full Council in Q4 2020. The proposed Financial Contribution will be as follows:

55-80+ (one flat band contribution regardless of age): 1/4 of net proceeds of sale of dwelling

**Proposed: Cllr. Mike Donegan**

**Seconded: Cllr. Sean Hartigan**

Ms. Newell proceeded to go through the results of the MyPoint questionnaire for the Private

Downsizing Scheme –

1. Are you in agreement with the age bands proposed for the private downsizing pilot?

 50% Agree

 50% Disagree

•1a. Do the bands need to be expanded?

 50% Agree

 50% Disagree

•1b. If yes, please choose which band you agree with?

•55 to 65 17%

•66 to 80 0%

•55-80+ (one flat band contribution regardless of age) 33%

•Did Not Answer 50%

2. Do you agree with the fractions proposed for the contribution element by age band? The principle

being the younger the applicant, the more contribution required to become a tenant as part of a

managed complex.

 50% Agree

 50% Disagree

•2a. If you are not in agreement, should there be one fraction and one age band?

•55-80+ and ¼ of net proceeds? 17%

•55-80+ and 1/3 of net proceeds? 0%

•55-80+ and 1/5 of net proceeds? 17%

•Other? 17%. Fraction is too high for the 80 plus groups---
•Did Not Answer 49%

3. The private downsizing scheme is primarily for managed older person’s accommodation that will

come on track through LCCC Direct Build and AHB build. Are you in agreement with this model being

piloted first?

 100% Agree

4.Do you have any other observations that will help us finalise a pilot scheme? •I would be careful

that council are not seen to be providing a ‘double subsidy’ as in people availing of tenant purchase

scheme and shortly after availing of a downsizing scheme.

 Pilot scheme for 1-2 years and review

 Schemes should be built with footpath access to town or village centres.

It was noted by Ms. Newell that we need to be mindful that the council are not seen to be providing

a double subsidy.

There was an agreement to look at the pilot scheme for one – two years and then review and amend

if necessary.

Ms. Newell outlined the key features of the policy proposal.

A discussion took place and the main points were:



Cllr. Joe Leddin thanked Ms. Newell and HDD team for proceeding with the private

downsizing scheme and facilitating older people.

**Turnkey** **–** **Delivering Mixed Tenure Developments** **–** **Aoife Duke**

Ms. Duke thanked everyone who participated in the workshops and for the feedback given for this

proposal.

The proposed policy is: To proceed with mixed tenure percentages as follows for turnkeys (LCCC +

AHB):

• 30% SOCIAL • 20% PRIVATE • 50% AFFORDABLE

To ensure social rental cap in turnkeys being cognisant of the settlement size

**Proposed: Cllr. Sean Hartigan**

**Seconded: Cllr. Catherine Slattery**

Ms. Duke proceeded to go through the results of the MyPoint questionnaire for the Turnkey –

Delivering Mixed Tenure Developments –

1. Do you agree with the classification of current tenure types we have in Ireland?

 100% Agree

•1a. Are there tenure types we are missing that requires consideration also?---
 No responses

2. Do you agree on the proposed percentage mix split between Private, Affordable and Social?

 67% Agree

 33% Disagree

3. Do you agree with the cap on number of social rental units per turnkey site to suit the size of the

city, town or village (settlement hierarchy)?

 100%

4. Do you have any other observations on how to obtain a good tenure mix in turnkey proposals?

 Council have been doing a good job to date of tenancy offers. I believe it’s critical that tenancies

are offered to tenants who can be assisted and will work towards an integrated community in

any new development.

 The social housing is too high we see part 5 with a 10 percent for social housing in private

estates, I would also consider that the private housing percentage be increased

 Take into account the nature and aims of the development; consider how the mix might change

in the future and what the implications could be then

The policy is relevant to discussions with developers and we would request that developers provide

such a tenure mix in large scale turnkeys that may be brought to LCCC for consideration. The cap will

be adhered to in terms of social housing numbers.

There are a number of different types of properties that would be available within the tenure and

Ms. Duke would be encouraging any developer who approached with a Turnkey to have an element

of an Elderly Scheme/based on approved designs within the development and we would then

partner up with an AHB to manage in the long-term.

Ms. Duke acknowledged Cllr. Leddin’s point about cost-rental and same can be included in

appropriate schemes that come on stream during lifetime of our work.

A discussion took place and the main points were:



PJ O’Grady asked the question – was Lisheen Park, Patrickswell all Social Housing? Ms. Duke

responded that it was our own land and it was all social housing with 16 houses. It was a

rapid build scheme and the scheme was different to a turnkey.



Ms. Duke stated that we have included details of turnkey schemes in the housing newsletter

and will keep communication open regarding potential developments.

**Item 4: To note the Rebuilding Ireland quarterly update on Buy, Build and Lease activity** **–** **Sarah**

**Newell**---
Ms. Newell provide a summary of the delivery programme.

A discussion took place and the main points were:



PJ O’Grady requested a copy of the table and breakdown of schemes. Information to be

issued by e-mail.

**Item 5: To further consider the Recommendations referred from the meeting of the Council held**

**on June 26th, 2020 back to the Home and Social SPC** **–** **Aoife Duke:**



**Garda vetting of all future HAP recipients;**



**Draft Homeless Policy Document.**

There was a proposal from the SPC that all HAP applicants should be Garda Vetted – this went

forward from the SPC as a recommendation to the CPG. It was debated in the CPG and the decision

was made that it should be brought back to the SPC based on an update that Ms. Duke had received.

Ms. Duke reads out the response to the SPC members –

*In order for a household to qualify for the Housing Assistance Payment (HAP) scheme, the household*

*must first be assessed as eligible for social housing support by Limerick City & County Council. Any*

*household assessed as eligible for social housing is immediately eligible for HAP.*

*The application form for social housing support prescribed by the Social Housing Assessment*

*Regulations 2011, requires applicants to provide details of any convictions under a number of*

*specified statutes relating to anti-social behaviour and public order offences.*

*In respect of the HAP scheme, under section 45(6) of the Housing (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act*

*2014, local authorities may refuse to provide, or cease providing, housing assistance in respect of a*

*qualified household where the local authority considers that any household member is or has been*

*engaged in anti-social behaviour.*

*Similarly, under this section, the Limerick City & County Council may also refuse to permit a person*

*who proposes to take up or resume residence or enter or be in a dwelling the subject of housing*

*assistance where the Council considers that the person is or has been engaged in anti-social*

*behaviour.* **Ms. Duke noted that the key point here is that the relationship is between the landlord**

**and the tenant and LCCC is a third party in this situation and therefore cannot vet the tenants.**

*Under HAP, tenants source their own accommodation in the private rented market. The tenancy*

*agreement is between the tenant and the landlord and is governed by the Residential Tenancies Act*

*2004, (as amended). The Residential Tenancies Board (RTB) was established as an independent*

*statutory body under the Act to operate a national tenancy registration system and to facilitate the*

*resolution of disputes between landlords and tenants.*

In summary, vetting of HAP applicants is not something LCCC are entitled to do as the relationship is

between the landlord and the tenant. Under legislation, LCCC has the power to deal with particular

individuals who engage in anti-social behaviour.

Ms Duke asked members of the SPC to bring any issues of ASB from HAP tenants to her attention.---
A discussion took place and the main points were:



Cllr. Keary voiced his concern with this answer. He feels that all HAP tenants should be Garda

vetted in a similar way to Local Authority Tenants.



Ms. Duke responded that unless there is a legislative change to the process LCCC cannot

engage in the vetting of HAP tenants. Ms. Duke stated that if there is a particular issue with

a tenant that members of the SPC can report it to us and we can intervene with the powers

that we do have. Ms. Duke asked Cllr. Keary to come to her directly if there are issues with

HAP tenants and will do her best to resolve the issue.



Cllr. Keary looked for support from his colleagues and Ms. Duke suggested if the members of

the SPC were in agreement that we could write a letter to the Minister and suggest that this

step can be brought in to the process in some legally acceptable way.



Cllr. Sharon Benson acknowledged the sentiment of Cllr. Keary’s proposal and raised some

concerns. People are already struggling to source properties and if Garda Vetting is brought

in then this could potentially delay the process - if tenant pays the deposit and is in contract

with the landlord, what happens down the line with Garda Vetting then. Also, she goes on to

highlight the role of the RTB and said that vetting will potentially create a huge backlog in

HAP.



Cllr. Mike Donegan, Cllr. Teefy and Cllr. Ruddle agreed with Cllr. Keary’s proposal.



Cllr. Sarah Kiely and Cllr. Conor Sheehan agreed with the sentiment of Cllr. Keary’s proposal.

**A formal recommendation from the SPC for a letter to be sent to the Minister for Housing in**

**relation to HAP Garda Vetting of tenants to go full Council.**



**Draft Homeless Guideline Document** **–** **Aoife Duke**

On the 22nd June Rob Lowth, Acting Senior Executive Officer, Housing Support Services, provided a

presentation in relation to a Homeless Protocol.

Ms. Duke outlined the proposed guideline and members were asked to support its use:

*The purpose of the Homeless Protocol Document is to provide Persons who find themselves homeless*

*(Single Persons, Couples, Families) with a clear understanding of the Services provided by the Council*

*in terms of Emergency Accommodation and the support they will receive in terms of exiting*

*homelessness.*

*While this Protocol has been created with the input from Service Providers and Frontline Staff, each*

*Homeless presentation is taken at face value with the insight of a full holistic needs assessment. Cases*

*are balanced against the protocol and viewed on a case by case basis.*

***Assessment and Eligibility***

*Persons presenting as homeless will be required to ensure they have a proven association with*

*County Limerick. This may include one of the following:-*---


*Their permanent place of residence is Limerick*



*They are eligible or are currently approved social housing applicants with Limerick City and*

*County Council*



*They have been in receipt of social housing supports RAS/HAP in Limerick*



*They have been resident in Limerick greater than 6 months at a valid and verified address*



*They are in receipt of a payment in Limerick from Department of Social Protection for greater*

*than 6 months at a valid address*



*They are in possession of a valid Notice of Termination within Limerick*



*They are in possession of a valid repossession order from their bank within Limerick*

*Having met the eligibility criteria, persons will be considered for emergency accommodation if:-*



*They have demonstrated that they have exhausted all other accommodation options without*

*success, including family mediation*



*They have not made themselves intentionally homeless*



*They have no rent arrears in their previous accommodation (except where a payment plan*

*was in place with the landlord)*



*They have not been evicted from their previous accommodation due to anti-social behaviour*

*or for non-payment of rent*



*They have not voluntarily surrendered a housing tenancy of any kind*



*They have not abandoned a housing tenancy of any kind.*

Ms. Duke stated that we are trying to put in place a system that it is fair, open and transparent. The

main priority is to find the individual/family a permanent home so that their base is not emergency

accommodation for any longer than is necessary and if the house is not in the area of choice that they

will be afforded the opportunity to be placed on a transfer list.

**Proposed: Cllr. Sarah Kiely**

**Seconded: Cllr. Sean Hartigan**

A discussion took place and the main points were:

Cllr Benson stated that she is against some elements of the current proposal. Cllr. Benson feels this

policy is missing proper wraparound supports, which should be written in.

Mr. Rob Lowth stated that it was formally adopted by the SPC previously. It is seen as a function to

give a benchmark for how we work with homeless presentations. Mr. Lowth said that we would

amend the protocol to put a timeline in when it comes to engagement with people in hotels.

Cllr. Benson raised the issue of NTQ as a result of non-payment of rent.

Ms. O’Connor goes on to say that since using this policy they have only ever refused one family for

rent arrears – the landlord put in place four different types of payment plans and none were utilised

and each presentation is reviewed in detail.

**Item 6 Social and Affordable Housing Mungret:**---
**Notice of Motion submitted by Councillor J. Leddin (referred from the July 2020 Adjourned**

**Meeting of the Council)**

*I will move at the next Meeting that Limerick City and County Council ensure that the maximum*

*allocation of social and affordable houses is secured from the planned residential development by*

*Limerick 2030 in Mungret and that the Council not accept any alternative options as provided under*

*the relevant housing legislation.*

Ms. Newell stated that LCCC will be accepting the 10% social on-site Part V and the 20% affordable

as agreed as part of the Master planning process for the Affordable Dwellings – that is set in stone.

Cllr. Leddin acknowledged this answer.

**Item 7: Notice of Motion submitted by Councillor S. Hartigan**

*I will move at the next meeting of the Metropolitan District that the Council make evidence of a*

*household waste collection service a condition of all tenancies and in cases of non-compliance the*

*cost of waste collection is added to the customers rent bill*

Ms. Duke provided the legal response from our solicitors – there are two parts to the Notice of

Motion:

1) I will move at the next meeting of the Metropolitan District that the Council make evidence

of a household waste collection service a condition of all tenancies.

Ms. Duke stated that it is the practice of the Housing Department that any pre-tenancy meeting

includes the requirement to have evidence of a waste collection service. Proof of the service must be

available by the proposed tenant at that meeting. Ms. Duke outlined clause 6 of the tenancy

agreement, Section 18 of the Waste Management Acts 1996-2012, Section 9 of the Housing

Miscellaneous Provision Act 2014.

2) In cases of non-compliance, the cost of waste collection is added to the customers rent bill.

Ms. Duke noted that our legal team states that they cannot see how this will be imposed and any

motion if passed would be seeking to implement a change for a service that the Council do not

provide. Ms. Duke outlined the Local Government Financial Provisions no. 2 Act 1983. Ms. Duke also

noted from response that our solicitor is unable to locate any requirement under the Housing

Regulations or legislation to allow such a condition. This is deemed to be unenforceable.

Cllr. Hartigan stated that this Notice of Motion was to ensure that all Council tenants are compliant

with the waste disposal responsibility and he feels that the obligations put forward to them at the

pre-tenancy meetings is weak.

Chairperson asked for all members of the SPC to receive copy of legal advice by e-mail.

Ms. Duke acknowledged that we are exploring the possibility of bringing in a policy to apartment

blocks and making sure that all of those tenants in apartment blocks have a waste collection service.

Ms. Duke also states that we will contact our tenants in January and ask them to make declaration of

waste collection service to the Council. Our Tenancy Sustainment team will be carrying out

inspections throughout City and County. Outcomes can be reviewed as part of February SPC.---
Cllr. Mike Donegan says that any support that can be given to Cllr. Hartigan in relation to the

environmental issues, that he fully endorses them.

**Item 8: Call for Agenda Items**

Ms. Duke asked members to e-mail the team with any agenda items.

Agenda items proposed will move through the following protocols:

1. When submitted, a briefing document on the subject will be prepared and circulated in

advance of the meeting.

2. At the SPC, the proposer of the topic will brief members on the purpose of the proposal –

from that a discussion on the topic will take place.

3. Based on the feedback from members the executive will then formulate a policy or protocol

for adoption at the next SPC.

Agenda items can be submitted at any time and will be reviewed on the basis of the process

outlined.

**Item 9: AOB**



Cllr. John Costelloe wanted to raise the issues of the housing bodies and the lack of

awareness they have with some of their clients who have been housed.



Ms. Duke provided updates on Voids, DPG’s and the Energy Efficiency Project and noted that

the Housing Newsletter will contain more information:

Two grant allocations for Voids this year:

**1). Covid-19 Void units**



LCCC completed 50 units under the emergency grant allocation for Covid-19 void units



These were completed via a mix of direct labour and contractor



Total costs €1.002m and grant received was €0.564m



56% grant funded



Max grant per unit available was €12,485, but subject to limits per works item.



LCCC need to fund the balance from own resources (ICRs etc.)



Grant funding claimed and received

**2). Standard Void units (July Stimulus)**



LCCC were initially given a grant allocation of €1.174m under the July 2020 stimulus.



We nominated 65 properties to be funded under this grant approval in August 2020.

The Dept. approved 56 units in Sept 2020 to a max grant of €0.982m

These will completed via a mix of direct labour and contractor, and to be finished and claimed by

Dec 4th 2020---
LCCC must fund the balance from own resources (ICRs etc.)

Overall funding outturn is expected to be in the region of 60% (grant) to 40% (own resources)

**3). Private Grants**



Private Grants for houses in 2020 are €3,385,125

(This is the same as 2019)

**4). DPGs**



DPG grant allocation for 2020 is €928,333

(FYI –65% of the 2019 grant allocation)



DPGs are funded 80/20 with LCCC providing circa €230k

**5). Energy Efficiency Programme**



120 houses around City and County – David. E Leahy gave update on this project at last SPC.



All houses will achieve a minimum of B2 BER rating.



Houses completed in batches: Abbeyfeale (10 houses) – completed, Askeaton (18 houses) –

completed, Newcastle West (13 houses) – completed, Lisheen Park (20 houses) – 95%

completed, Kilmallock/Kilfinannan (8 houses) – 70% completed, Bruree/Bruff (12 houses) –

50% completed, City houses – 25% completed. All houses to be completed by the 13th

November.



Mr. Mike McNamara asked that the Housing Newsletter be distributed to all sectoral reps.



Cllr. Benson noted that there is a Department top up for the DPG funding stream and Ms.

Duke acknowledged that we would review.

END OF MEETING

The Chair thanked everyone for logging in and for their valuable contributions. He also thanked the

members of the executive present.---
