*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  
Seirbhisi Corparaideacha agus Bainistiocht Athruithe,
al Comhairle Cathrach agus Contae Luimnigh,

ANF : Cé na gCeannaithe,
—=>=> Luimneach
Limerick Corporate Services and Change Management,
CITY & COUNTY Limerick City and coum Seah
COUNCIL a

t: +353 (0) 61 407 100
f: +353 (0) 61 415 266

1* April, 2016.

To: The Cathaoirleach and Each Member of the Municipal District of Newcastle West

A Chomhairleoir, a chara,

You are requested to attend a Meeting of the Municipal District of Newcastle West to be held at Aras

William Smith OBrien, Newcastle West, Co. Limerick, on Wednesday, 6” April, 2016 at 10.00 a.m.

The business to be transacted is set out on the appended Agenda.

Is mise le meas,

Christy O’Connor,
Meetings Administrator.

AGENDA

1. Minutes
To adopt Minutes of the Meeting of Municipal District of Newcastle West held on 2” March,

2016.
(Copy Enclosed)

2. Schedule of Works for the Municipal District

To consider draft Schedule of Works for the Municipal District of Newcastle West 2016.

(Report enclosed)

& customerservices@timerick.ie

Ceanncheathri Chorpardideach, Cé na gCeannaithe, Luimneach & wvew.timerick.ie
Corporate Headquarters, Merchants Quay, Limerick w @LimerickCouncil

---
*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  
10.

11.

12.

nN

QUESTIONS
Questions submitted by Councillor J. Scanian

I will ask at the next Meeting what is the combined total of the Net Annual Value of the
Rateable Premises within the Desmond Business Park.

| will ask at the next Meeting when black and amber markings will be placed (a) on the
Courtney Footbridge and (b) will be restored and renewed at the Beechwood Road Junction
with the R522.

| will ask at the next Meeting when completion to footpath renewal work is planned for
Church Street, Dromcollogher.

Questions submitted by Councillor L. Galvin

| will ask at the next Meeting when the trees in the Square and Mountmahon, Abbeyfeale,
which have failed will be replaced.

| will ask at the next Meeting for an update on the Traffic Management Plan for Abbeyfeale
town.

| will ask at the next Meeting when the village of Mountcollins will be resurfaced, as it is in a
dreadful condition.

uestions submi b uncillor F. Fol

| will ask at the next Meeting if there is any update regarding the upgrading of the traffic
calming on the Killarney Road in Abbeyfeale.

| will ask at the next Meeting if funding has been sought for the upgrading of the road surface
from Mountmahon to the Garda Station in Abbeyfeale.

NOTICES OF MOTION

Notices of Motion submitted by Councillor J. Scanlan

| will move at the next Meeting that the Council move to take in charge the road
infrastructure servicing the various Business Units within the Desmond Business Park at
Gortboy, Newcastle West.

I will move at the next Meeting that speed indication signage be put in place on the Kilready
approach towards Castlemahon school in the interest of safety.

---
*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  
13.

14.

Notices of Motion submitted by Councillor L. Galvin

| will move at the next Meeting that urgent and immediate action be taken to help the
farming community with the issues on the River Feale at the back of the town park,
Abbeyfeale.

| will move at the next Meeting that a large sign displaying the rules for the playground in
Abbeyfeale be erected, to prevent antisocial behaviour.

---
