**COMMUNITY, LEISURE & EMERGENCY SERVICES STRATEGIC POLICY**

**COMMITTEE**

A meeting of the Community, Leisure & Emergency Services Strategic Policy Committee

was held in Council Chamber, Limerick City and County Council, Merchant’s Quay,

Limerick, on Tuesday 18th October, 2016 at 2.30p.m.

The following were in attendance: -

**IN THE CHAIR:**

Cllr. F. Foley

**PRESENT:**

Cllr. John Costello, Cllr. Vivienne Crowley, Cllr. Michael

Hourigan, Cllr. Marian Hurley, Cllr. William O’ Donnell, Cllr.

Gerald Mitchell, Cllr. Ciara McMahon, Cllr. Malachy

McCreesh, Cllr. Seán Lynch, Cllr. Kevin Sheahan, Cllr.

Michael Sheahan, Cllr. Brigid Teefy, Ms. M. Vaughan-

Mullane, (Agriculture/Farming), Ms. Elisa O’ Donovan, Ms.

Marian Healy, Ms. Donnah Vuma

**IN ATTENDANCE:**

Ms. C. Curley, Director of Service

Ms. G. Dollard, Administrative Officer

Mr. M. Ryan, Chief Fire Officer

Mr. P. McMahon, Snr. Ass. Chief Fire Officer

Ms. M. Caulfield, Social Development Directorate

**APOLOGIES:**

Cllr. Lisa Marie Sheehy

Ms. M. Fitzgerald

Mr. C. Flynn

Mr. S. O’ Connor

Ms. J. Hayes

**Item 1:**

**Adoption of Draft Minutes of Community Leisure & Emergency Services**

**Strategic Policy Committee held on 6th** **July, 2016.**

Minutes of meeting of 6th July 2016 were proposed by Cllr. G. Mitchell and seconded by Cllr.

M. Sheahan.

**Item 2:**

**Matters arising**

Cllr. Teefy queried the possibility of rotating the meetings between City and County Hall due

to the issue with finding car parking.

 This was agreed by the committee.---
**Item 3:**

**Consideration of Draft Fire and Emergency Operations Plan under**

**Section 26, Fire Services Act, 1981 & 2003 (copy attached).**

Following on from the last SPC meeting and at the request of the members, a tour of all the

districts were made by the Chief Fire Officer to explain in detail the changes made to the

draft plan. Mr. Michael Ryan, Chief Fire Officer gave an overview of the background to the

Fire Plan again which had already been circulated to members. From these visits, the issues

raised by the members are:

 Area Risk Categorisation – this was further confirmed by C. Curley that it has been

removed from the draft.

 Pre determined attendance.

 Five minute turn out time.

M. Ryan explained that every second counts in the Fire Service. The Pre determined

attendance is about the type of incident and the appliances needed for same. There also has

to be enough cover left in the area. The five minute turn out time starts when the fire

fighter’s pager goes off, they leave home, get into the station, get into their gear and into the

appliance, they then press a button. The Limerick Fire Service wish to maintain or improve

on these five minutes. The national agreement is that all retained fire fighters will get paid if

they get into the station within ten minutes. This is not changing.

A letter from SIPTU was read out and a copy was sent to all members acknowledging and

agreeing to the draft plan.

Chair thanked Chief Fire Officer for his presentation and complimented the fire fighters for

their ongoing commitment and professionalism in the delivery of their duties along with the

other councillors.

Many councillors have been approached by the Fire Fighters with regard to these issues.

There was some confusion over Section 11.3 and 11.4. The fire fighters felt it would

interfere with their pay if they didn’t reach the incident within five minutes. The other issue

was the station boundaries and that other fire tenders from stations in Kerry, Tipperary and

Cork were being sent out to incidents that Limerick should be covering. If they don’t get the

call, they don’t get paid.  Councillors felt that this message needs to be clearer.

Chief Fire Officer responded to the queries raised:

 There will be no penalties if fire fighters don’t reach an incident within ten minutes.

There will always be reasons for this – traffic, conditions of roads, weather.

 A 999 call comes into the Control Centre. The controller takes the details and checks

the database to see who the nearest and available tender is. If a tender is required

from another county, the CFO’s will discuss this arrangement only on the condition

that there will be available cover. This database is prepopulated as decided by the

CFO’s and updated when necessary such as a new road opened.

Following on from this discussion, the majority of the members felt that this draft plan should

be forwarded for approval at the next full council meeting. It was also asked that members

could see the database and also visit the Control Centre.

**Proposed: Cllr. K. Sheehan**

**Seconded: Cllr. S. Lynch**---
**Item 4:**

**Update on Suicide Strategy**

G. Dollard gave a quick update on the suicide prevention sub committee. At the last meeting

the following items were discussed:

 Compiling a directory of services for mental health.

Local Authority will be the resource to put this together.

 Hold a network event to see what resources are needed by organisations and how the

Local Authority and HSE can pool resources.

 Suicide talk for elected members – details of same will be emailed shortly to

members.

Members acknowledged the hard work of the chairperson Cllr. Sheehy on the work being

done on this committee and also congratulated her on her recent graduation.

M. Healy asked how members can get involved on the sub group. She also requested that the

Council would consider evaluating the current interventions within the local authority area

such as Lisa’s Lights which is located on Thomond Bridge.

 Cllr. M. Sheahan responded that membership can be expanded and is opened to SPC

members.

Cllr. Prendiville who attended the meeting for information purposes only, asked if there were any

updates on new premises for Jigsaw.

 G. Dollard to check with the Property Section for update.

**Item 5:**

**Schedule of Meetings for 2016/2017**

A discussion was had about timing of meetings. At the last meeting it was discussed to

facilitate meetings on a Monday, which doesn’t suit all members.

The following dates were decided by the members present.

Wednesday 14th December 2016 – Council Chamber, **County Hall**

Tuesday 21st February 2017 – Council Chamber, **City Hall**

Tuesday 25th April 2017 – Council Chamber, **County Hall**

Wednesday 21st June 2017 – Council Chamber, **City Hall**

Minutes Proposed By:

Minutes Seconded By:

Minutes Signed By Chair:

Date:---
