[Original file](https://www.limerick.ie/sites/default/files/media/documents/2020-11/signed-agenda-jpc-meeting-4th-dec-2020.pdf)

---
*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  
_—_—_—_ Comhairle Cathrach
& Contae Luimnigh
nN o™ Limerick City C
— merick City
County Council

27 November, 2020.

TO EACH MEMBER OF LIMERICK JOINT POLICING COMMITTEE

A Chara,

Seirbhisi Corparaideacha,

Combsairie Cathvach agus Contae Luimrugh,
Ceanncheathré Chorparaidesch,

Cé na qCeannaithe,

Ladmneach

Corporate Services.

Limenck City and County Council,
Corporate Headquarters,
Merchants Quay,

Limerick

EIRCODE V94 E90

t: 4353 (0) 61 557150
f: +353 ]0) 61 415 266

| wish to inform you that a Virtual Meeting of Limerick Joint Policing Committee will take place on

Friday, 4" December, 2020 at 10.00 a.m.

Details of the Agenda and attachments to be discussed at the meeting are set out hereunder :

Is mise, le meas,
) i CQ.
Ja ne

A/Senior Executive Officer

ite Services, Governance & Customer Services Department

ee ee ne Sie ene ee Seen ee i) is

AGENDA

1. Confirmation of Minutes of Joint Policing Committee Meeting held on 2% October, 2020

(copy attached).

2. To receive update from Chief Superintendent.

3. To receive overview on Crime Statistics from Senior Crime and Policing Analyst.

4. Question submitted by Niall Collins, T.D.

“1 will ask at the next Meeting for confirmation that a dedicated Policing Plan for Rathkeale
will be implemented during the Christmas and New Year period and if a broad outline of this

plan can be made available to inform the public”.

5. Question submitted by Niall Collins, T.0.

“| will ask at the next Meeting for the number of fines issued, the number of files referred to
the DPP and the number of prosecutions initiated and/or before the courts in Limerick

arising from breaches of Covid 19 Regulations”.

Ceanncheathru Chorpardideach, Cé na gCeannaithe, Luimneach
Corporate Headquarters, Merchants Quay, Limerick

mm Customerservices@limerickic
© wevelimerickie

w @LimerickCouncil

\ 061 - 557150


---
*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  
10.

11.

12.

13.

Questi bmitted by Niall Collins, 1.
“| will ask at the next Meeting for the number of (1) bars and pubs in which An Garda
Siochana carried out test purchasing to detect the sale of alcohol to underage persons and
(2) the number of off licence premises in which An Garda Siochana carried out test
purchasing to detect the sale of alcohol to underage persons in Limerick during 2018, 2019
and 2020 to date and, arising from this, the number of fines issued and/or prosecutions
initiated/taken before the courts”.

n submi Hin:
“| will ask at the next Meeting for the number of vehicles seized under Section 41 of the
Road Traffic Act for (2) no insurance (b) no nct (c) no tax (d) unaccompanied driver (e) no
drivers licence (f) dangerous / defective vehicle, in limerick in each of the years 2018, 2019
and 2020 to date.

Questi bmitted by Maurice Quinii Lp
“| will ask at the next Meeting how many illegal scramblers and quad bikes have been seized
in the Limerick policing district in 2019 and in 2020 to date”.

“| will ask at the next Meeting, where there has been drug seizures and subsequent criminal
charges, how many of these cases remains to be heard before the courts, specifically,
charges regarding the alleged possession of controlled drugs for unlawful sale or supply

(S. 15A of the Misuse of Drugs Act 1977, as amended), that were seized in Limerick”.

Question submitted by Maurice Quinlivan, T.D,
“| will ask at the next Meeting for an update on the policing operation in the Garryowen
area”.

Question submitted by Councillor Martin Ryan

“\ will ask at the next Meeting will Garda Management review the staffing levels with the
view to increasing same for the Cappamore/ Kilmallock area and especially
Murroe/Cappamore/Doon/Pallasgreen/Oola”.

“| will ask at the next Meeting will Garda Management increase it's operation in Johnsgate
Village estate as it has been highlighted that there is a great problem with anti social
behaviour there causing great distress and difficulty for residents and landlords. Anti social
behaviour is rampant in this area”.

Question submitted by Kieran O’Donnell, T.0.
“1 will ask at the next Meeting for an update on incidents of Covid 19 related vandalism and
graffiti in Limerick and an update on Garda investigations underway here”.

15.

“1 will ask An Garda Siochéna for an update on incidents of anti social behaviour around the
former Limerick Racecourse site and for plans to deal with anti social behaviour in the area”.

Notice of Motion submitted by Dr. Breda Hayes

“| will move at the next meeting that the Joint Policing Committee write to the Minister for
Justice and to the Minister for Children seeking legislative intervention to remove the
prohibition in Section 252 of the Children Act 2001 against naming child victims in
appropriate circumstances”.


---
