*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  
MINUTES OF PROCEEDINGS OF JOINT POLICING SUB COMMITTEE
MEETING OF THE MUNICIPAL DISTRICT OF CAPPAMORE-
KILMALLOCK HELD IN COMMUNITY CENTRE, GALBALLY, CO.
LIMERICK, ON THURSDAY, 28" FEBRUARY, 2019, AT 3.00 P.M.

PRESENT IN THE CHAIR:
Councillor E. Ryan, An Cathaoirleach.
MEMBERS PRESENT:

Councillors Donegan, Gleeson, Mitchell, O’Donnell, Sheehy and Teefy.

OFFICIALS IN ATTENDANCE:

Director Support Services-Finance, Corporate, HR & ICT (Mr S. Coughlan), Meetings
Administrator (Mr. M. Leahy). Senior Executive Engineer Cappamore-Kilmallock (Mr. B.
Kidney).

Also in attendance: Superintendent An Garda Siochana Mr. Brian Sugrue; Community Garda
An Garda Siochana Ms Yvonne Norris; and Public Participation Network (PPN) Nominee Mr.
Thomas O’Dwyer.

1. Adoption of Minutes

Circulated, copy of draft Minutes of the Joint Policing Sub-Committee Meeting of the
Municipal District of Cappamore-Kilmallock held on the 21% November, 2018.

Proposed by Councillor Sheehy;
Seconded by Councillor Mitchell;
And Resolved:

“That, the draft Minutes, as circulated, be taken as read and adopted and signed.”

2. Policing | in rict

Superintendent Sugrue gave an update on policing issues within the District and he outlined
some crime statistics in relation to recent reported criminal activity in the Bruff Garda District.
He confirmed that, overall, that there had been no major changes in crime statistics in
comparison with the same period in 2017 but did confirm that there had been a slight increase
in thefts from cars. The Superintendent stressed the importance of members of the public
ensuring that their vehicles were securely locked at all times and that no property should be
left on display in cars.

---
*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  
The Superintendent also referred to the successful event that took place on the 12" February,
2019 in The Old Convent, Bruff titled “Rural Isolation and Crime Prevention which was
supported by An Garda Siochana. He thanked the Elected Members for their support in
relation to spreading the word about the event and their attendance on the night.

Reference was made to other Garda Community Initiatives such as the Divisional Youth
Awards in Adare in December 2018, the recent awards for the handball Club in Kilmallock and
the recently introduced text alert scheme for truck drivers. It was agreed that such initiatives
play a role in encouraging greater community links and help deal with crime prevention in the
District.

The Superintendent also confirmed that Garda John Curtin, Ballylanders and Sergeant Helen
Holden, Cappamore had both recently confirmed that they would be retiring and he
confirmed that discussions had taken place with the Chief Superintendent about securing
replacements for these retiring Gardai, and he confirmed that the Chief Superintendent was
committed to supporting the Bruff District with the required resources.

3. Community Garda

Superintendent Sugrue introduced Garda Yvonne Norris to the Meeting and she briefed the
Members on her role as the local Community Garda for Galbally. She explained that she was
based in Bruff Garda Station and would be holding regular clinics in Galbally. She hoped to
build up links with the local community in Galbally and would assist the community with any
Garda related queries they may have or assist with the certification of certain forms such as
passports, etc.

The Members thanked Superintendent Sugrue for the update on policing matters and crime
statistics and welcomed Garda Yvonne Norris to the Meeting. The Members referred to the
problems with break-ins to cars and agreed that ongoing vigilance was needed to deal with
this issue. The Members acknowledged the overall work done by An Garda Siochana in the
District and they noted the imminent retirements of Garda Curtin and Sergeant Holden and
expressed their thanks to both Gardai for their excellent service to the people of the District
over many years.

The Members also welcomed the initiative on community policing in the District, which was
very positive and agreed that it was important that there were good links between the Gardai
and the public in tackling crime. The Members requested further information on Gardai being
assigned to each area and the Superintendent agreed to provide these details at the next Joint
Policing Sub-Committee Meeting.

This concluded the Meeting.

Signed:
Cathaoirleach

Date:

---
