**MINUTES OF MEETING OF LIMERICK CITY AND COUNTY COUNCIL HOME AND SOCIAL**

**DEVELOPMENT SPC**

A meeting of Limerick City and County Council, Home and Social Development Strategic

Policy Committee was held on **Tuesday, 24th** **October, 2016.**

**In Attendance**

An CathaoirleachCllr Michael Donegan

**Present:**

Cllr C Prendiville, Cllr. J. O’ Dea, Cllr J Scanlan, Cllr J Leddin, Cllr. J.

Gilligan, , Cllr J Costello, Cllr P Keller, Cllr R O’ Donoghue, Cllr J Pond,

Cllr S Keary, Cllr W O’ Donnell.

**Sectoral Interests:**

Mr. P J O’ Grady, Ms T McElligott, Mr. J. Prior

**In Attendance:**

Mr Seamus O’ Connor, A/Director of Service

Ms. Patricia Liddy, Senior Executive Officer, Community Supports

Ms. Ciara Farrell, Administrative Officer, Social Development

Mr. Dara McGuigan, Administrative Officer, Community Supports

Mr. Stephen McNamara, Homeless Unit Co-ordinator

Ms. Sarah Newell, Executive Planner, Regeneration

Ms. A. Crowe, Senior Staff Officer, Community Supports

Mr. Edward O’ Sullivan, Clerical Officer

Ms. Martina Caulfield, Clerical Officer

**Apologies:**

Cllr L M Sheehy

**Item 1:**

**To confirm the minutes of the Home and Social Development Strategic**

**Policy Committee meeting held on 13th** **June 2016.**

The Minutes were proposed by Cllr J Leddin and seconded by Cllr P Kelleher.

**Item 2:**

**Confirmation of Minutes**

Cllr. Keary queried why the minutes did not record all of his comments at the previous

meeting and stated that comments should be attributed to the members. Mr. O’ Connor

responded to say that it is difficult to record all minutes. Minutes should only have

decisions that are proposed and seconded.

Cllr. Donegan asked for an update on the Incremental Tenant Purchase Scheme exclusions.

The members agreed to hold a workshop on Monday 14th November at 2pm and this would

be included on the Agenda.

**Item 6:**

**To receive a report from the Homeless Action Team**
---
It was agreed to take Item 6 next.

S. McNamara circulated an update to the members on the current details of homelessness

in Limerick. He informed the members that the hostels that accommodate families are at

full capacity. One family has been currently allocated a permanent tenancy and are

awaiting renovations which would create an emergency space. Mr McNamara gave details

of the rough sleeper’s count carried out on Friday 21st October and outlined the actions that

HAT are progressing including the Winter Beds Initiative for which they are trying to identify

a suitable space.

It was explained that the Rough Sleepers Initiative covered the city centre area between the

railway station and the river and between Mount Kennett Place and Hartstonge Street. It

was acknowledged that people can sleep rough in other areas and HAT has changed the

nights of the count and covered Merchants Quay, Nicholas Street and the castle area.

However, staff could not enter private properties.

In response to a query it was clarified that funding for B&B accommodation is through the

Department of Social Protection. HAT makes an assessment on their needs and tries to

keep families together which may mean making more than one room available. Case

workers from HAT are assigned to link in with families with children who assess their needs

and provide them with the services they require while in the temporary accommodation.

**Item 3:**

**Update on Incremental Tenant Purchase Scheme**

A. Crowe updated the members on the Incremental Tenant Purchase Scheme and explained

that information leaflets will be included with the next rent statement which might increase

uptake. Several members felt that the rules of the scheme had a lot of restrictions. P. Liddy

replied that other local authorities have the same issues and the Local Authority has little

discretion within the regulations of the national scheme. It was decided to discuss this in

more detail at the workshop.

S. O’ Connor also informed members that the rent review scheme will also need to be

looked at. The last scheme was in 2011 and had two schemes. A single scheme will now

need to be drafted and brought before the next SPC.

**Item 4:**

**Update on Housing Need Assessment**

P. Liddy circulated an update on the HNA that was recently carried out in line with the

national guidelines and the number of applications which were closed without response.

Ms Liddy informed the members that an extensive letter, phone, newspaper and radio

campaign had taken place and that staff members worked overtime contacting people

outside office hours. In response to requests from members Ms Liddy stated that there will

be flexibility for applicants who have had their Housing Waiting List place closed.
---
**Item 5:**

**Presentation of ‘*Rebuilding Ireland’***

It was agreed to adjourn this item to the next SPC.

**Item 7:**

**Review of the Traveller Accommodation Plan**

S. O’ Connor informed the members of the requirement to review the Traveller

Accommodation Plan. Submissions will be requested and will go before the Local Traveller

Accommodation Consultative Committee (LTACC) and will then go to the next SPC.

**Item 8:**

**Report on Choice based letting scheme and to set a date to hold a**

**workshop on Single Allocations Scheme**

Members were told that a circular had been received requiring Councils to adopt choice

based letting as part of their Allocation Schemes. Both scheme current contain a provision

for choice based letting. It was agreed to proceed with workshop on the 14th of November.

**Item 9:**

**Any Other Business**

It was clarified that the PPN representatives had been circulated details of the meeting

using the contact details that were circulated.

PJ O’ Grady asked on whether a private estate in Patrickswell can be taken over by the Local

Authority. It was explained that a protocol is being developed to go out to private landlords

and ask for sites to be given to local authorities. This will be advertised.

Cllr. Keary asked for an update on his query at the June SPC on the Adare scheme.

The meeting concluded.
---
