MINUTES OF MEETING OF METROPOLITAN JOINT POLICING SUB COMMITTEE

HELD IN THE COUNCIL CHAMBER, MERCHANT’S QUAY, LIMERICK ON MONDAY,

21ST MAY, 2018 AT 12.30 P.M.

**IN THE CHAIR :**

Councillor Seán Lynch

**MEMBERS :**

Councillors Hurley, Keller, Ó Ceallaigh, Costelloe, Gilligan, Hogan

**LCCC OFFICIALS** :

Mr. J. Clune, A/Senior Executive Officer

Ms. L. Creamer, Staff Officer, Corporate Services

**GARDA NOMINATIONS:**

Superintendent D. Smart

Superintendent F. Pattwell

**COMMUNITY REPRESENTATIVES** :

Ms. Monica McElvaney, Adapt Services

**APOLOGIES :**

Inspector P. Byrnes

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

At the outset, Councillor Lynch, Chairman, apologised for the delay caused by the longer than usual

Metropolitan District Meeting.

It was agreed that if there was a large agenda for the Metropolitan District Meetings in future then the

Metropolitan JPC Meeting would be rescheduled to a different date.

**MINUTES**

It was proposed by Councillor Lynch, seconded by Councillor Gilligan and unanimously agreed to approve

Minutes of Metropolitan Joint Policing Sub Committee Meeting held on 19th February, 2018.

**1.UPDATE FROM SUPERINTENDENT DEREK G. SMART**

Members voiced their concerns regarding the following issues :



Large groups of teenagers congregating in areas drinking, some of whom are underage, smoking and

intimidating residents and referred specifically to Old Cratloe Road, Castletroy and Annacotty. These

groups increase during the summer months due to school holidays. Members requested that garda

patrols be increased in these areas;



Sulky racing on main roads especially during rush hour and in particular on Ballyneety Road, some of

the individuals involved are children. Horses being retained in back gardens in the city centre and this

includes Lamas also. Horse Control Committee going to visit Clondalkin, Dublin to see their horse

project. Members asked that the policy on sulky racing be updated;



Anti social behaviour taking place in Johnsgate Village;



Additional gardai required on the city streets;



Strategy required for dealing with people partaking in anti social behaviour and who are living in

Council housing . These people should be evicted. Community policing very important and brings

stability to an area, Request additional community gardai in areas where anti social behaviour is

taking place;
---


Increase number of fines issued to non disabled people parking in disabled parking spaces;



Begging in the city centre becoming an increasing problem;



Examine the issue of horses in Greenpark Race Course and also on Vances Land;



Check to see if the CCTV at the back of the Baggot Estate is working;



Members of the public should be encouraged to report more matter to the Gardaí;



Concern was expressed at graffiti on walls of private dwellings and enquired if it would be possible to

make parents of individuals carrying out these acts aware of this and be required to carry out

corrective action;



Concern was expressed at anti social behaviour taking place in the vicinity of the Regional United

Soccer Club and increased Garda patrols were requested for the area;



Members received complaints from Traders regarding anti social behaviour and vandalism in the

Market area and asked that the matter be addressed;



Members referred to the problem of horses grazing and being ridden in Rathbane Municipal Golf

Course and Pike Rovers Football Club. A golfer was knocked down by somebody riding a quad bike in

the golf course. A request was made to install CCTV cameras and electronic access and railings at the

Golf Course. Request update on same.



Members stressed the importance of telling members of the public to report incidents to the Gardai;

Superintendents Pattwell and Smart replied to the above queries as follows :



A definite line of enquiry was being followed in relation to the incident where the golfer was knocked

down by a quad bike in Rathbane Municipal Golf Course. He agreed to monitor the issue of horses in

Rathbane Golf Club on a regular basis and, if necessary, the horses will be seized. Garda patrols

would be increased to monitor activity at Regional United Soccer Club;



Issues re the Baggot Estate will be passed on to the regular Garda patrol units and community police.

He agreed to check the CCTV in the Baggot Estate to ensure it is working;



New laws for cyclists have been issued and will be imposed shortly;



There is no legislation in relation to the keeping of Lamas so unfortunately this matter cannot be

addressed;



The Gardai are working actively on anti social behaviour by large groups of teenagers congregating in

areas and are issuing fines, where necessary. The Juvenile Liaison Officer has also been involved to try

and encourage youths to change their behaviour;



36 Gardai passed the fitness tests and added that it is hoped to have 36 pedal police in place by the

end of the summer period. This increased visibility of Gardai on the streets and housing estates will

have a positive impact on addressing anti social behaviour and crime;



The issue of anti social behaviour in Cornmarket Row and city centre is an ongoing issue and garda

presence had been increased there with between nine and eleven Gardai patrolling the city centre

daily. Unfortunately there is limited CCTV in the area;
---


A number of serious assaults have taken place in Johnsgate Village adding that none of the houses

there are owned by Limerick City and County Council. However, the Gardai have been active in

addressing these issues;



Seven new guards had been appointed to Limerick, however, eight guards were lost due to transfers,

retirements, etc. The Drugs Staff had been increased and there was now double the number that was

there. One Community Policing Guard had been assigned to Nicholas Street;



There is no legislation around the issue of begging so, therefore, there is very little the Gardai can do

about the matter. One Exclusion Order had been issued recently in respect of one individual who was

on O’Connell Street. The Homeless Action Group are intervening in cases where there are children

involved;



A number of cases have been taken against individuals for graffiti, however, there is no legislation

whereby parents are obliged to pay for any damage done as a result of graffiti. The Gardai are

monitoring this matter on an ongoing basis;

The Chairman, Councillor Sean Lynch stated that he will continue to request a Garda Kiosk in the city centre

manned by Guards, Civilians or Garda Reserves.

Councillor John Costelloe asked that work would commence as soon as possible on the approved

extinguishment of Right of Way in Gloster’s Lane.

This concluded the meeting.

COUNCILLOR SEAN LYNCH

JPC CHAIR
---
