MINUTES OF PROCEEDINGS AT MEETING OF THE MUNICIPAL DISTRICT OF CAPPAMORE-

KILMALLOCK HELD IN ÁRAS MAINCHĺN SEOIGE, MILLMOUNT, KILMALLOCK, CO. LIMERICK,

ON THURSDAY, 19TH JANUARY, 2017 AT 3.30 P.M.

PRESENT IN THE CHAIR: Councillor E. Ryan.

MEMBERS PRESENT:

Councillors Donegan, Gleeson, Mitchell, O’Donnell, Sheehy, Teefy.

OFFICIALS IN ATTENDANCE:

Acting Director of Support Services (Finance, Corporate, HR and ICT) (Mr. S. Coughlan),

Administrative Officer, Corporate Services (Ms. T. Knox), Chief Officer, Limerick Local

Community Development Committee (Mr. S. O’Connor), Research Assistant, Social

Development (Dr. E. Humphreys), Senior Staff Officer (Mr. W. Ryan), Senior Executive Engineer

(Mr. B. Murphy), Executive Engineer (Mr. J. Moloney), Assistant Engineer (Mr. D. O’Dea),

Assistant Staff Officer, Corporate Services (Ms. S. Carroll).

At the outset and with the Cathaoirleach’s permission, sympathy was extended to the family of

Mr. Seamus Ryan of Kilfinane Community Council. Mr. Ryan had attended the December

Meeting of the District, at which the Community Council had given a presentation, and he

passed away suddenly over the Christmas period.

Members also expressed sympathy to Ms. Linda Reidy and family, Customer Services,

Dooradoyle on the passing of her mother-in-law, Mrs. Ellen Reidy.

Members stood in silence and the Meeting adjourned for a short period as a mark of respect.

1.

Adoption of Minutes

Circulated, copy of draft Minutes of Meeting of the Municipal District of Cappamore-Kilmallock

held on 15th December, 2016.

Proposed by Councillor Sheehy;

Seconded by Councillor Mitchell;

And Resolved:

“That, the draft Minutes, as circulated, be taken as read and adopted and signed.”

2.

Update on Policing in the District

The Meetings Administrator confirmed that Superintendent Duane was unable to attend this

Meeting and was not in a position to attend the February Meeting and that he would be invited

to the March Meeting of the District.
---
2

3.

Social Development Directorate

Mr. S. O’Connor, Chief Officer, Limerick Local Community Development Committee (LCDC) and

Dr. E. Humphreys, Research Assistant, Social Development Directorate gave a powerpoint

presentation to Members on Local Development and Local Coordination Structures which

included the following :-

• Local Coordination Structures.

• Local Strategies and Plans.

• Planning and Policy Implementation Frameworks.

• Key Programmes: SICAP and LEADER.

• Issues and Challenges.

Members thanked Mr. O’Connor and Ms. Humphreys for the excellent presentation and for

their extensive work to date. Following queries from Members, Mr. O’Connor and Dr.

Humhreys confirmed the following :

The LEADER Programme was now open for applications. The budget was €9.276m with an

additional €2.3m from Limerick City and County Council. The application process was complex

but Ballyhoura Development Company would assist Community Groups with applications. The

Expression of Interest was the first step of a two step application process. Workshops would be

organised by the Development Companies. The evaluation processes were being finalised.

The LCDC would give feedback on applications.

Members requested that a flyer be prepared by the LCDC Chief Officer giving a summary of the

various local development strategies and programmes, including LEADER and SICAP, that were

now in implementation as this would be useful for the Members in providing information to

local communities.

QUESTIONS

4.

Question submitted by Councillor L.M. Sheehy

I will ask at the next Meeting if the Planning Section can waive the cost of putting up finger

post signage for a community facility if the group is not a registered charity and if the said

group is leasing lands from the Council.

REPLY:

Under Section 254 of the Planning & Development Acts 2000 (as amended), the

Planning Authority has no discretion to waive fees in respect of fingerpost

signage, save in cases where the applicant is a registered charity.

5.

Question submitted by Councillor G. Mitchell

I will ask at the next Meeting what is the current position in relation to the sewage treatment

plant in Hospital. I will also ask what is the time frame for upgrading the plant to cater for

present and future needs and also to ensure compliance with relevant regulations and

criteria. This upgrade is an immediate and essential priority for Hospital to move forward.

The Meetings Administrator confirmed that a reply had not been received from Irish Water in
---
3

relation to this question but it would be circulated to Members as soon as it was received.

Members stated that the sewage system in Hospital needed to be upgraded as a priority to

ensure that the town could expand and develop in the future.

The following items were raised at the conclusion of the Agenda :

Members requested that a survey be carried out on burial grounds in the District to determine

how many spaces were available.

It was agreed to invite Mr. R. Webb, Senior Architect to the February Meeting of the District.

It was agreed to hold the March Monthly Meeting on 23rd March, 2017.

This concluded the Meeting.

Signed:

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

Cathaoirleach

Dated:

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
---
