MINUTES

OF

PROCEEDINGS

AT

MEETING

OF

THE

MUNICIPAL DISTRICT OF NEWCASTLE WEST JOINT

POLICING SUB COMMITTEE HELD IN ÁRAS WILLIAM

SMITH OBRIEN, NEWCASTLE WEST, CO. LIMERICK, ON

WEDNESDAY, 7TH MARCH, 2018, AT 9AM.

PRESENT IN THE CHAIR**:**

Councillor M. Collins, Cathaoirleach.

MEMBERS PRESENT**:**

Councillors Browne, Foley, Sheahan and Galvin.

Apologies: Councillor Scanlan

OFFICIALS IN ATTENDANCE**:**

Director, Service Operations (Mr. G. Daly), Senior Executive Engineer, West Division (Mr. B.

Noonan), Meetings Administrator, Newcastle West (Ms. M. Corbett), Executive Engineer,

Roads (Mr. P. Vallely), Clerical Officer, Newcastle West (Ms. A. Lenihan)

Superintendent E. O’Neill and Inspector A. Cullen

Councillor Collins noted that this was the first Meeting of the Newcastle West Joint Policing

Sub Committee and welcomed everyone in attendance.

1. Policing Issues in the District

Superintendent O’Neill stated that the Christmas policing plans went well particularly in

Rathkeale town. He referred to a number of incidents, which occurred within the District

including a hijacking, quad bike theft, arson and a drug seizure. He noted that arrests had

been made with files sent to the Director of Public Prosecutions.

He outlined the community policing plans and stated that 49 Gardai are involved in

community policing. He noted that these Gardai would be liaising with community and

residence groups. He also referred to the text alert schemes for households and to the new

business text alert scheme. Superintendent O’Neill also stated that a formal launch of the

scheme would take place in April.

He also paid tribute to the great co-operation between the Gardai, Council, Emergency

Services, Civil Defence, Red Cross and the Army during Storm Emma.

The Members also complimented all services dealing with the severe weather event and the

work, which was carried out in the aftermath of Storm Emma. They requested that their

thanks be convened to the crews involved.---
2

They also welcomed the update on policing within the District and queried if additional

resources were required given the large geographical area being policed. They noted the

community policing model and the visual presence of Gardai within the local towns. The

opening hours of the Abbeyfeale Garda Station, a Sergeant for Abbeyfeale and the issue of

drugs within the region was also raised.

In response, Superintendent O’Neill, stated with regard to the opening hours of Abbeyfeale

Garda Station, it was more beneficial to have Gardai patrolling the area but if members of the

public wished to meet with Gardai arrangements could be made. He also noted that in the

short term there would be no Sergeant for Abbeyfeale but did state that four additional traffic

Gardai are being made available for the District. He also advised that a Crime Prevention

Sergeant is available for the District and he can give advice to groups on security measures.

The Members also expressed their congratulations to former Chief Superintendent D.

Sheahan on his appointment to Assistant Commissioner. They wished Sergeant D. Woods

well on his retirement and also expressed their condolences to Garda G. Griffin on his family’s

recent bereavement.

This concluded the Meeting.

Signed:

**\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_**

**Cathaoirleach**

Dated:

**\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_**---
