**MINUTES OF PROCEEDINGS AT MEETING OF THE MUNICIPAL DISTRICT OF ADARE-**

**RATHKEALE JPC SUBCOMMITTEE HELD IN ÁRAS SÉAN FINN, NEW LINE ROAD,**

**RATHKEALE, CO. LIMERICK ON THURSDAY, 8TH** **NOVEMBER, 2018 AT 4:30 P.M.**

**PRESENT IN THE CHAIR:**

Councillor A. Teskey, An Cathaoirleach.

**MEMBERS PRESENT:**

Councillors Keary, O’Brien, O’Donoghue and Sheahan.

**APOLOGIES:**

Councillor McMahon.

**OFFICIALS IN ATTENDANCE:**

A/Senior Executive Engineer, Service Operations West Division (Mr. K. Murphy), Meetings

Administrator (Ms. K. Butler), A/Senior Executive Officer, Housing Support Services (Mr.

R. Lowth), Clerical Officer (Ms. L. Harnett).

Superintendent J. Deasy and Inspector A. Cullen.

At the outset of the Meeting it was proposed by Councillor Keary and seconded by

Councillor O’Donoghue to suspend the Meeting for fifteen minutes to conclude a

workshop that had commenced at 3.00 p.m.

On resumption of the Meeting the Cathaoirleach welcomed Superintendent John Deasy

to the district and congratulated Sergeant Niall Flood on his recent promotion.

**1.**

**Policing Issues**

Inspector Cullen briefed Members on the Christmas policing plans for the District over the

Christmas period. Following the success of last year’s plan additional resources will be

deployed to the area again for 2018. He added, following a public meeting in September

with the local Community Council it was agreed by all, the key issues in Rathkeale over

the Christmas period were antisocial behaviour, dangerous driving, littering and illegal

parking around the town. Inspector Cullen confirmed a separate budget of €22,000 will

be provided for Garda policing in Rathkeale over the Christmas and the New Year.

Superintendent Deasy felt the policing plan worked well in 2017 due to the high visibility

presence of Gardaí in the town. As a result, this year there will be an emphasis on Gardaí

patrolling the streets as well as using motorbikes and pedal bikes.
---
Superintendent Deasy went on to say the Gardaí have visited schools in the area to discuss

antisocial behaviour and the dangers of underage driving. Local businesses and publicans

were also visited to discuss the advantages of closing at a reasonable hour and have been

advised liquor licence laws will be strictly enforced. Foróige will also be working closely

with the Juvenile Liaison Officer in Rathkeale over the Christmas period to arrange

activities for youths in the area. Four Gardaí will be stationed in Rathkeale at any one

time and the call management policy will change to ensure Gardaí based in the Rathkeale

Garda Station will remain in the area during Christmas.

Discussion ensued on the CCTV cameras in Rathkeale. Members expressed concern in

relation to the delayed access to CCTV footage. Superintendent Deasy assured Members

the process for Gardaí accessing CCTV footage is fast and Inspector Cullen advised by the

end of the month CCTV real time monitoring in Moyross will be available for Rathkeale.

Councillor O’Donoghue enquired if a system could be put in place for the Gardaí to have

a direct access to the CCTV footage.

Councillor O’Donoghue spoke of the huge issue of drug use in the Area. Superintendent

Deasy advised Members a drugs plan is in place and there are currently drug seizures in

the district every weekend. He also emphasised the responsibility on the owners of

licenced premises to identify those involved in this practice to the Gardaí.

Councillor Sheahan informed Superintendent Deasy and Inspector Cullen that the people

of Askeaton feel badly let down by the lack of policing in the town. Inspector Cullen

advised Councillor Sheahan a Garda would be deployed to Askeaton Garda Station the

following week and a Division Plan would be rolled out shortly for a Community Garda

dedicated to Askeaton town.

Councillor Keary commended the multi-agency co-operation but questioned the lack of

oversight in relation to stolen goods and also illegal furniture traders in the area. The

following motion was proposed by Councillor Keary and seconded by Councillor

O’Donoghue. “Write to all agencies to convene a meeting in due course to formulate a

policy for multi-agency oversite for the sale and distribution of goods”.

The Cathaoirleach and Members thanked the Superintendent and Inspector for attending

and also thanked the media due to the delayed Meeting.

This concluded the Meeting.

Signed:

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

**Cathaoirleach**

Dated:

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
---
