**MINUTES OF PROCEEDINGS AT SPECIAL MEETING OF THE MUNICIPAL DISTRICT OF ADARE-**

**RATHKEALE HELD IN ÁRAS SEÁN FINN, NEW LINE ROAD, RATHKEALE, CO. LIMERICK ON**

**TUESDAY, 9TH** **APRIL, 2019 AT 9.00 A.M.**

**PRESENT IN THE CHAIR:**

Councillor A. Teskey, An Cathaoirleach.

**MEMBERS PRESENT:**

Councillors Keary, McMahon, O’Brien, O’Donoghue and Sheahan.

**OFFICIALS IN ATTENDANCE:**

Director, Service Operations Directorate (Mr. K. Lehane), Meetings Administrator (Ms. K.

Butler), Senior Executive Engineer, Service Operations West Division (Mr. A. Finn),

Executive Engineer, Service Operations West Division (Mr. J. O’Keeffe), Clerical Officer (Ms.

L. Harnett).

**APOLOGIES:**

Director, National and Regional Shared Services (Ms. C. Curley).

**1.**

**Deputation from Adare Tidy Towns**

The Cathaoirleach welcomed Ms. Bridie Collins, Chairperson and Ms. Bridget Lohan,

Treasurer, Adare Tidy Towns to the Meeting.

Ms. Collins, Chairperson addressed the Meeting and outlined below the works which has

been carried out by Adare Tidy Towns Committee to date and also highlighted the following

works which will require attention in Adare over the coming months:

•

One of the main objectives of Adare Tidy Towns in 2019 is to bring the Sensory

Garden to the construction stage. We would like to thank Carmel Lynch for meeting

with us recently to discuss this project and welcome her enthusiasm and input.

We are looking forward to a consistent and progressive working relationship with

Carmel and Limerick City and County Council to bring this worthy project to fruition.

•

The footpaths throughout Adare are in very poor condition and require immediate

attention. Poorly placed paving stones are causing trips and falls. During periods of

rain pooling on footpaths often cause pedestrians to step onto the road. The

installation of the water meters several years ago has also caused interruptions on

the footpaths. We ask that Limerick City and County Council survey all the footpaths

in Adare and repair or replace all footpaths where necessary.
---
2

•

Dustbins in Adare are in need of replacement. The existing bins are not uniform and

many require repairs. We ask Limerick City and County Council to replace all bins

with new bins which will be in keeping with the heritage of Adare. Sponsorship of

bins by business owners and placement of additional bins in identified areas must

also be considered.

•

All approach roads into Adare are currently unsightly and require cleaning. We ask

that Limerick City and County Council commit to sweeping the road verges at least 3

times per year.

With one of the clean-ups to coincide with or just prior to Tidy Towns judging on

June 1st and a second cleaning in mid Aug , a third cleaning in Spring and any

subsequent cleaning at the discretion of Limerick City and County Council.

•

We ask Limerick City and County Council to clarify their commitment to grass cutting

of all public areas of Adare. These areas include-: area from St. Nicholas Church to

The Dunraven Arms Hotel including the narrow strip.

The entire of the river bank walk.

The grass on the Rathkeale Road.

The entire of Adare Town Park.

Maintenance of trees and shrubberies should also be looked after by Council.

•

We ask that Limerick City and County Council commit to ensuring that bin collection

is carried out every day including weekends for 2019. We also ask that street

sweeping is carried out every day as is the current practice.

•

We ask Limerick City and County Council survey all council signage in Adare. As one

of Ireland leading tourism destinations it is imperative that all signage is

sympathetically positioned, appropriate and well presented.

•

We ask Limerick City and County Council to remove all overhead wiring ( Eircom,

ESB etc) and place them underground in the existing ducts.

•

We ask Limerick City and County Council to change the speed limit on Station Road

to 50km per hour and extend the 50km zone to beyond Popes Quay and car park.

Members suggested a masterplan is needed for Adare and all groups should come together

with one representative from each group forming a sub group. Member thanked the

Deputation for their presentation and advised the Executive would arrange to cost the

proposed works outlined by the Deputation and revert back to the Committee when

costings were complete.
---
3

This concluded the Meeting.

Signed:

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

**Cathaoirleach**

Dated:

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
---
