MINUTES OF PROCEEDINGS AT MEETING OF THE JOINT POLICING

COMMITTEE HELD IN EXHIBITION ROOM, MERCHANT’S QUAY, ON FRIDAY,

23rd MARCH, 2018, AT 10.00 A.M.

PRESENT IN THE CHAIR:

Councillor Seán Lynch

MEMBERS PRESENT:

Councillors Keller, Ryan, Ó Ceallaigh, Daly,

Costello, Keary, Gilligan

OIREACHTAS MEMBERS:

Minister (Mr. N. Collins)

GARDA NOMINATIONS:

Chief Superintendent (Mr. G. Roche),

Superintendent (Mr. F. Pattwell),

Superintendent (Mr. D. Smart), Superintendent

(Mr. E. O’Neill) Inspector (Mr. D. O’Connor),

COMMUNITY REPRESENTATIVES: Mr. T. O’Dwyer, Anglesboro Tidy Town, Mr. W.

Priestley, Our Lady of Lourdes Community

Services, Ms. M. McElvaney, Adapt Services.

OFFICIALS IN ATTENDANCE:

Senior Executive Officer, Corporate Services

(Mr. C. O’Connor) Staff Officer, Corporate

Services (Ms. C. Sheehy).

OTHER:

Chief Bureau Officer CAB (Mr. P. Chair), Deputy

Sergeant CAB (Mr. K. Goulding), An Garda

Siochana (Ms. A. Garrard, Ms. L. Breen, Ms. M,

O’Donoghue)

APOLOGIES:

Chief Executive (Mr. C. Murray)

At the outset of the Meeting, the Chair wished Dave Sheehan, former Chief

Superintendent, every success in his new post in Dublin and thanked him for all his hard work

in Limerick. He welcomed the new Chief Superintendent, Gerard Roche, to the Meeting and

wished him well in his new role. The Chair congratulated Mr. Christy O’Connor, Senior

Executive Officer, on his promotion to the position of Director of Service, Kerry County

Council.---
2

1.

Adoption of Minutes

Circulated, copy of draft Minutes of Meeting of the Joint Policing Committee held on

8th December 2017.

Proposed by Mr. T. O’Dwyer;

Seconded by Mr. W. Priestley;

And Resolved:

“That, the draft Minutes, as circulated, be taken as read and adopted and signed.”

2.

To receive presentation from the Criminal Assets Bureau (CAB’s) on

CAB links with An Garda Siochana

The Chair welcomed Mr. Patrick Clavin, Chief Bureau Officer and Mr. Kieran Goulding,

Deputy Sergeant, Criminal Assets Bureau to the meeting.

The Chief Bureau Officer gave a Powerpoint presentation on the Criminal Assets

Bureau and outlined the following key points:-

 What is the Criminal Assets Bureau

 How is it working to recover the proceeds of crime based in communities

 What to do if you suspect someone’s lifestyle is funded by crime

The Members thanked the Chief Bureau Officer for his presentation and commended

the Criminal Assets Bureau on their achievements to date. The Members queried if

the €5,000 threshold limit could be lowered. The Chief Bureau Officer informed the

Members that all cases go through the High Court, which has a huge cost impact. He

stated that there was no benefit going to court with small amounts and that the

threshold limit for cash was over €1,000. In reply to queries, the Chief Bureau Officer

informed the Members that Limerick was the 2nd biggest area for CAB outside of

Dublin.

3.

To consider Annual Work Programme for 2018

The Senior Executive Officer gave a Powerpoint presentation on the Annual Work

Programme for 2018 and outlined the following:-

 Joint Policing Committee Guidelines

 Joint Policing Committee Strategy 2017 – 2021

 Joint Policing Committee Annual Work Plans---
3

He stated that the four Strategic Themes identified in JPC Plan 2017-2021 were as

follows:-

 Enhancing Governance and Communication

 Enhancing the role of local communities in crime prevention and response

 Working with communities to improve cohesion, inclusion and reduce anti-social

behaviour

 Improving traffic flows and road safety

He informed the Members that it was proposed that each of the 2018 meetings would

focus on a particular Theme as outlined above. The Steering Group Meeting would be

held approximately two weeks before scheduled JPC meetings to agree agenda and items

for inclusion on same should be submitted to Senior Executive Officer before this meeting.

He outlined to the Members that Strategic issues should be addressed by the Joint Policing

Committee and Operational issues would be dealt with at Metropolitan/Municipal District

Joint Policing Committees.

The Members thanked the Senior Executive Officer for his presentation and requested if

the documentation for the meetings could be sent out in advance of the meeting.

4.

To consider change of date for Meeting No. 4 of JPC in 2018 and its

designation as a ‘Public Meeting’

Following discussion, it was proposed that an evening Meeting would be held at the

beginning of week commencing 10th December 2018 and the Senior Executive

Officer would inform the Members of same.

5.

To receive update from Chief Superintendent

The Chief Superintendent gave a Powerpoint presentation on the latest crime

statistics for Limerick City and County under the following headings:

 Property crime

 Crimes against the person

 Criminal damage and Public Order

 Drug crimes

 Traffic

He outlined the current staffing levels within the Limerick Division and District.

The Members thanked the Chief Superintendent for his presentation, however,

expressed concern that a permanent Superintendent at Bruff Garda Station had still

not been appointed. The Members felt Bruff Garda Station was under policed and as

a result, burglary crime was rising. The Chief Superintendent stated that it was

under the Commissioners remit to appointed staff.---
4

Ms. Aoife Garrard, Community Co-Ordinator gave a Powerpoint presentation on her new

role as Community Co-ordinator, which covers Community Policing in Limerick City North

and Limerick City South Garda Districts. She stated that her role was to engage with

members of the public/key stakeholders, forward the relevant information to local Gardaí

for action and revert with an update on same to members of the public/key stakeholders.

She informed the Members that the following were the key functions of the Community Co-

Ordinator:

 Communication with An Garda Síochána stakeholders

 Main point of contact by email and phone during business hours

 Maintaining relationships with An Garda Síochána’s key stakeholders in Limerick City

and County

 Promoting Community Policing initiatives within the Limerick Division

 Engaging with communities in Limerick and supporting community led initiatives

 Supporting committees and attending meetings relevant to Community Policing

The Members thanked the Community Co-Ordinator for her informative presentation. In

reply to query from the Members, the Community Co-Ordinator informed the Members

that it was hoped to roll out the programme to countywide based within the next couple of

months.

This concluded the Meeting.

Signed:

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

Cathaoirleach

Date:

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_---
