**MINUTES OF MEETING OF LIMERICK CITY AND COUNTY COUNCIL HOME AND SOCIAL**

**DEVELOPMENT SPC**

A meeting of Limerick City and County Council, Home and Social Development Strategic

Policy Committee was held on **the 20th** **April 2022** in the Council Chamber, Dooradoyle and

via MS Teams.

**In Attendance:** An Cathaoirleach, Cllr. Michael Murphy

**SPC Members Present:** Cllr. Sarah Kiely, Cllr. Stephen Keary, Mr. Patrick English, Cllr. James

Collins, Mr. P.J O’Grady, Cllr. Fergus Kilcoyne, Cllr. Mike Donegan, Cllr. Catherine Slattery,

Ms. Anne Cronin, Cllr. Sharon Benson, Cllr. Brigid Teefy, Ms. Tracy McElligott, Cllr. Tom

Ruddle, Cllr. Joe Leddin, Cllr. Conor Sheehan, Mr. Mike McNamara, Ms. Dee Ryan, Cllr. Adam

Teskey

**In Attendance:**

Ms. Caroline Curley, Director of Service, Housing

Ms. Sarah Newell, Senior Executive Officer

Mr. Conor Culloo, Senior Engineer, Housing

Ms. Patricia Phillips, Administrative Officer, Housing

Ms. Miriam Donnelly, Administrative Officer, Housing

Ms. Elaine O’Connor, Administrative Officer, Regeneration

Ms. Tríona O’Connor, Administrative Officer, Housing

Ms. Helen Creed, Administrative Officer, Housing

Ms. Jennifer Ahern, Staff Officer, Housing

Ms. Jurate Andrijauskiene, Staff Officer, Housing

Mr. Shane Feane, Assistant Staff Officer, Housing

Mr. Rory Culhane, Assistant Staff Officer, Housing

Mr. Eóin Lehane, Clerical Officer, Housing

Ms. Jeannine Butler, Clerical Officer, Housing

Ms. Amanda Glasper, Clerical Officer, Housing

Ms Noelle Deedigan, Clerical Officer, Housing

Ms. Philomena Carroll, Development Worker, Mid-West Drugs and

Alcohol Taskforce

Ryan O’Rourke, Examiner

**Apologies:**

Cllr. Sean Hartigan, Cllr. Eddie Ryan, Ms. Una Burns, Ms. Siobhan

Reidy

**Welcome by Chairperson – Cllr. Michael Murphy**

Cllr. Michael Murphy opened the meeting and welcomed all members to the April SPC

meeting.

**Item 1: Confirm minutes from meeting held on16thFebruary 2022**

**Proposed:** Cllr. Stephen Keary

**Seconded:** Cllr. Sarah Kiely
---
**Item 2: Matters arising from the Minutes**

No matters arising from previous minutes.

**Item 3:** **Drugs and Alcohol Services in the Mid-West Region Presentation – Mid-West Drugs**

**Taskforce Representative**

Presentation on “Drug & Alcohol Services in the Mid-West Region”. Presenter Philomena

Carroll, Development Worker, Mid-West Regional Drugs and Alcohol Forum.

A discussion took place and the main points were:

- Cllr. Catherine Slattery highlighted that a detox unit is necessary for the Mid-West

Region. Cllr. Slattery complemented the drug and alcohol services particularly during

lockdown. Ms. Philomena Carroll advised that there is a shortage of detox units

nationally.

- Cllr. Sharon Benson proposed the following:

***Write to the Minister for State for Public Health, Wellbeing and the National Drugs***

***Strategy, seeking additional funding for Mid-West Regional Drugs and Alcohol Services***

***and provide more transitional housing.***

***Proposed by Cllr. Sharon Benson***

***Seconded by Cllr. Conor Sheehan***

- Cllr. Conor Sheehan encouraged Limerick pharmacies to participate in the national

needle exchange programme. Ms. Philomena Carroll advised that there are two

pharmacies currently providing needle exchange in Limerick and that many pharmacies

have withdrawn from the programme due to safety concerns for their staff.

- Ms. Tracy McElligott requested Ms. Carroll’s presentation to be circulated to the

members. Ms. Carroll informed the group that she would circulate service flyer

hardcopies to the members also. Ms. Caroline Curley, Director of Service informed the

group that the purpose of the presentation was to communicate the drug and alcohol

services available.

**Item 4:** **Reporting to SPC from the Housing Disability Steering Group**

Ms. Helen Creed, Administrative Officer reported the “Housing and Disability Steering

Report 13th April 2022” figures to the committee.

A discussion took place and the main points were:

- Ms. Curley informed the group that this report would be circulated in advance going

forward.

- Cllr. Stephen Keary commented on the Disabled Person’s Grant (DPG) backlog and

highlighted that grant adaptations can greatly improve quality of life for people. Mr.

Conor Culloo, Senior Engineer confirmed the grant allocation from the Department.

- Cllr. Sharon Benson and Cllr. Sarah Kiely, sought clarification on the Disabled Person’s

Grant and transfer applications as part of the DPG process. Ms Phillips assured the
---
committee that each DPG application is reviewed on a case-by-case basis and assessed

accordingly.

- Ms. Tracy McElligott enquired on the anticipated delivery timeframe for the number of

wheelchair accessible houses in the pipeline as outlined in the report. Ms. Sarah Newell,

Senior Executive Officer informed the group that a substantial completion date will be

included in the Housing and Disability Steering report going forward.

- Cllr. Sarah Kiely enquired (a) if the Guinness Lands were owned by the Land Development

Agency or Limerick City and County Council and (b) what the plans are for Toppins Lands

and timescale involved. Ms. Newell informed the group that the Guinness site on Carey’s

Road is one of five sites around the city centre that has received funding under the

government’s serviced sites fund (SSF) scheme that the Council ran a series of workshops

on with Councillors in 2021.

- Limerick City and County Council is currently engaged with the Department on Toppins

Lands and members will be consulted during the Part 8 planning and development

process.

**Item 5: Update on Letter to Minister**

- Ms. Curley communicated the response from Minister for Housing, Darragh O’Brien in

relation to a review of the maximum grant allocation, and terms of the scheme, for

Housing Adaptation Grants for People with a Disability, Housing Grants for Older People

and Housing Grants for Mobility Aids.

Cllr. Keary in response stated that the Minister should be written to and reminded that

the grant allocation is not sufficient.

**Item 6: AOB**

- Cllr. Sarah Kiely requested an evaluation on the private rightsizing scheme and if the

following could be considered (a) allow the sale of the property on the open market with

a provision that it can only be sold to first time buyers or family members only and (b)

that pets are allowed as part of their new tenancy. Ms. Newell informed Cllr. Kiely that a

lesson’s learnt paper would be prepared in September/October 2022.

- Cllr. Adam Teskey requested an update on the house in St. Mary’s Park, Rathkeale. Ms.

Curley informed Cllr. Teskey that there was no information available and that any update

will be provided at the area meeting.

- Cllr. Teskey asked if there are any plans to remunerate private homeowners who

accommodate Ukrainians by way of either tax incentive or financial contribution. Ms.

Curley responded that she is not aware of any plans by Government at this time.

- Cllr. Teskey stated that the GDPR requirements are a continuous hindrance when

contacting the Council on behalf of constituents. Ms. Curley replied that the GDPR is a

regulation in EU law, that the Council has a protocol for representations and constituents

can contact the Council directly.

- Ms. Dee Ryan enquired about the register of interest for affordable housing and noted

there were no city centre locations available as options. Ms. Newell explained that the

locations identified came about following an expression of interest from developers in

January 2022 and that the next call to home builders and housing developers would be in

May/June 2022. Ms. Newell added that City Centre locations are progressing through the
---
planning application process citing Speakers Corner as an example. Ms. Newell informed

the members that the Council has received over 500 submissions to date from interested

applicants who wish to acquire affordable housing.

- Ms. Anne Cronin requested an update on the evictions at Shannon Arms and if the

Council can do anything. Ms. Curley informed the members that the Council does not

discuss individual cases and where necessary will try to find an amicable solution within

the Council’s remit and law.

- Cllr. Keary asked in relation to the GDPR if a text message from a constituent would be

acceptable. Ms. Curley informed Cllr. Keary that there is a protocol for representations in

place.

- Cllr. Keary requested an update on developments in Pallaskenry, Adare, the 33 Houses in

Ballywilliam, Rathkeale and the Convent House in Rathkeale. Ms. Newell informed the

members that the developer in Pallaskenry has exited examinership and the Council are

working with an Approved Housing Body to deliver the units with full nominations rights

from the Local Authority. Ms. Curley advised that the Convent House in Rathkeale have

been offered to the International Protection Accommodation Services (IPAS).

Ms. Curley informed the members that surveyors were appointed to the development in

Ballywilliam, Rathkeale and a further update will be provided at the area meeting.

Ms. Curley informed the members that the development in Adare has advanced and a

submission is currently with the Department. Mr. Culloo added that the Council are

getting closer to stage 2 of a 4-stage process.

- Cllr. Benson added that the residents in the new developments in Kileely and Rathbane

can’t get broadband. Mr. Culloo informed the members that the Council are looking into

it to determine the issue and will revert.

- Cllr. Kiely in relation to the GDPR asked if constituents provided verbal confirmation

would this be acceptable. Ms. Curley informed Cllr. Kiely that there is a protocol for

representations in place.

- Cllr. Kiely asked if we could progress a single housing representation policy. Ms. Newell

informed the group that this is in progress and that workshops will be held with the

members in advance of the policy going before the SPC.

- Cllr. Benson asked whether any Councillors were receiving individual appointments and

Ms. Phillips informed the members that they were not.

**June SPC meeting date to be confirmed.**

An Cathaoirleach, Cllr. Murphy thanked everyone who attended the SPC, for the

contributions and presentation given and wished former Councillor John Costelloe and

SPC member well on behalf of the Committee.

**END OF MEETING**
---
