*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  
_———_

AN f™

——=-
Limerick
CITY & COUNTY

COUNCIL

12" June, 2018

To: The Cathaoirleach and Member of the Munici

Duiche Bardais an Chaisledin Nua Thiar,
Comhairle Cathrach agus Contae Luimnigh,
Aras William Smith O'Brien,

Gortbui,

An Caislean Nua Thiar,

Co. Luimnigh

Newcastle West Municipal District,
Limerick City and County Council,
Aras William Smith O'Brien,

Gortboy,
Newcastle West,
Co. Limerick

t: +353 (0) 69 62100
f: +353 (0) 69 62861
| District of Newcastle W

A Chomhairleoir, a chara,

You are requested to attend a Meeting of the Municipal District of Newcastle West to be held
in Aras William Smith OBrien, Newcastle West, Co. Limerick on Friday, 15" June, 2018, at
9.00 a.m. The business to be transacted is set out on the appended Agenda.

Is Le le meas,
Margaret Corbett,
Meetings Administrator.

AGENDA

i Minutes

(a) To adopt Minutes of Meeting of the Municipal District of Newcastle West held on

2" May, 2018.

(Copy Enclosed)

(b) To adopt Minutes of Special Meeting of the Municipal District of Newcastle West
on the Abbeyfeale Traffic Management Plan held on 9™ May, 2018.

2. Physical Development Directorate

(Copy Enclosed)

To receive presentation on the Limerick City and County Council Draft Noise Action

Plan 2018.
3. Physical Development Directorate

To note the Flood Risk Management Plans - CFRAMS

Ceanncheathri Chorpardideach, Cé na gCeannaithe, Luimneach
Corporate Headquarters, Merchants Quay, Limerick

{Report Enclosed)

---
*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  
10.

11.

IM ition

To review position in relation to allocations under the General Municipal Allocation
2018.

Service Operations Directorate

Ta - Public R

To consider the Taking in Charge of Estate Rathronan, Athea, in accordance with
Section 180 of the Planning and Development Acts, 2000-2017, and Section 11 of the
Roads Act, 1993.

(Report Enclosed)
QUESTIONS
Questions submitted by Councillor J. Scanlan

| will ask at the next Meeting for a progress report on the traffic flow plan for
Boherbui, Newcastle West.

| will ask at the next Meeting when Road reinstatement works are likely to be
undertaken in Ballyagran Village.

| will ask at the next Meeting when footpath safety measures will be undertaken at:
(a) Upper Church Street, Newcastle West
(b) Lynch’s Corner, The Square, Newcastle West

tions i rl. Galvin

| will ask at the next Meeting for the road to be repaired at Gleann Cryle, Abbeyfeale,
and that work be carried out on the footpath that has collapsed next to it.

i will ask at the next Meeting for an update on the takeover of Brewery Lane,
Newcastle West.

| will ask at the next Meeting for a light to be placed on Pole No. 3 Convent Street,

Abbeyfeale, as this pole is at the entrance to a private lane way where anti-social
behaviour is occurring.

Questions submitted by Councillor M. Collins

| will ask at the next Meeting if the dyke at Glenastar, Ardagh (near John Hough’s
entrance) can be piped or filled to make the road edge safe for road users.

---
*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  
14.

15.

16.

17.

18.

19.

20.

| will ask at the next Meeting if the green area at Feohanagh side of Aglish graveyard
can be hardcored as it is unsightly in bad weather.

| will ask at the next Meeting if speed ramps/rumble strips can be installed at Gortboy
on approach from both sides to the Courtenay Boys School to slow down traffic.

NOTICES OF MOTI

Noti Motion submitted by Councillor J. Scanian

| will move at the next Meeting that an Audit be undertaken on the serious matter of
illegal dumping in the Glenagowen, Rooska and Keele areas to West and North West
of Newcastle West Town.

1 will move at the next Meeting that our Local Authority reinstate a painting
programme and/or supply paint for its tenanted properties within the Newcastle
West Municipal District.

Notices of Motion submitted by Councillor L. Galvin

| will move at the next Meeting that the Council consider a leasing agreement with the
Abbeyfeale Anglers on the property/ground next to The Mart Bridge, Abbeyfeale.

! will move at the next Meeting that the Til stagger the Devon road junction on the
N.21 as land available at this junction.

Notices of Motion submitted by Councillor M. Collins

| will move at the next Meeting that CCTV or other measures be installed at Glin Pier
to try and prevent illegal dumping.

| will move at the next Meeting that a footpath be installed from the top cross at
Ardagh along the R521 towards Shanagolden to give safe pedestrian access for
residents accessing Ardagh Village.

---
