**MINUTES OF MEETING OF LIMERICK CITY AND COUNTY COUNCIL HOME AND SOCIAL**

**DEVELOPMENT SPC**

A meeting of Limerick City and County Council, Home and Social Development Strategic Policy

Committee was held on **the 16th** **June** by Cisco WebEx.

**In Attendance:** An Cathaoirleach, Cllr. Michael Murphy

**SPC Members Present:** Cllr. Sharon Benson**,**

Cllr. Sean Hartigan, Cllr. Stephen Keary, Cllr. Fergus Kilcoyne

Cllr. Joe Leddin, Cllr. Tom Ruddle, Cllr. Conor Sheehan, Cllr. Brigid Teefy, Cllr. John Costelloe, Cllr.

Catherine Slattery, Mr. P.J O’Grady, Mr. Mike McNamara, Cllr. Mike Donegan, Cllr Eddie Ryan, Ms.

Tracey McElligott, Ms. Una Byrnes, Ms. Anne Cronin, Ms. Dee Ryan

**In Attendance:**

Ms. Aoife Duke, Director of Service, Housing Development

Mr. Rory Culhane, Clerical Officer, Housing Development

Ms. Jeannine Butler, Clerical Officer, Housing Development

Ms. Astrid Coughlan, Assistant Planner, Housing Development

Ms. Elaine O’Connor, Administrative Officer, Regeneration

Ms. Jennifer Ahern, Staff Officer, Housing Development

Ms. Sarah Newell, A/Senior Executive Planner, Housing Development

Mr. Declan White, Senior Executive Engineer, Regeneration

Ms. Jurate Andrijauskiene, A/Assistant Staff Officer, Housing Development

Mr. Rob Lowth, A/Senior Executive Officer, Housing Support Services

Ms. Suzie Clifford, Administrative Officer, Housing Development

Mr. Conor Culloo, Senior Engineer, Operations & Maintenance

Mr. David Leahy, Executive Engineer, Operations & Maintenance

Ms. Aedin Foley, Customer Services Team Leader, Customer Services

Ms. Andrea Goble, Executive Architect, Design & Delivery

Mr. Eóin Lehane, Clerical Officer, Housing Development

Mr. Mick Forde Bradley, Senior Executive Architect, Design & Delivery

Mr. Billy Lynch, Senior Executive Architect, Regeneration

**Apologies:** Cllr. Adam Teskey, Cllr. James Collins, Mr. Patrick English

**Welcome by Chairperson** **–** **Cllr. Michael Murphy**

The Chairperson opened the meeting and welcomed all SPC members to the virtual meeting of the

SPC.

The Chair thanked everyone who contributed to the Housing Workshop, which was held on the 11th

June 2021.

The Chair congratulated Ms. Aoife Duke on her new appointment as head of HR in the University of

Limerick. The SPC members gave their thanks to Ms. Duke on all of her work over the years and

conveyed their best wishes to her for the future.

**Item 1: Confirm minutes from meeting held on 21st April 2021**
---
**Proposed:** Cllr. Joe Leddin

**Seconded:** Cllr. Sarah Kiely

**Item 2: Matters arising from the Minutes**

No matters arising from previous minutes.

**Item 3: Repair and Lease Presentation (RLS)** **–** **Ms. Jennifer Ahern**

Ms. Ahern gave a presentation to the members of the SPC in terms on the Repair and Lease Scheme.

Ms. Ahern outlined that the RLS was developed under Rebuilding Ireland to assist property owners

in bringing vacant properties back in to use. Where a property requires repairs to bring it up to

rental standards, the scheme provides an interest free loan in return for the property being made

available to be used for social housing for a period of five years.

Under the scheme, the cost of the repairs will be repaid by the owner by offsetting it against the

rent due to the owner for the property over the period of the lease agreement.

The maximum funding available is €60,000, inclusive of VAT, increased from €40,000 in November

2020. The funding agreed will be paid on completion of works.

Ms. Ahern went on to outline that the ideal properties targeted under the RLS will require a low

level of investment to bring them to the required standard for renting. Ms. Ahern went through the

majority of works for SPC members.

Ms. Ahern also noted that there are a number of minimum requirements in relation to the scheme,

including:

1. The property must be vacant for at least 12 months before entering the scheme;

2. There must be a social housing demand for the property in the area;

3. The property must be assessed as being viable to provide social housing.

Ms. Ahern outlined the list of significant benefits to the property owner under the RLS.

Ms. Ahern outlined the expressions of interest received by Municipal District to SPC members:

Metropolitan Area

94

Newcastle West

5

Adare/Rathkeale

10

Cappamore/Kilmallock

30

Ms. Ahern noted that currently LCCC have delivered 23 houses under the RLS and 1 apartment:

Metropolitan Area

13

Adare/Rathkeale

2

Cappamore/Kilmallock

8

Ms. Ahern showed SPC members a photographs of a number of RLS units before refurbishment and

after refurbishment.
---
A discussion took place around this and the main points were:



Cllr. Tom Ruddle expressed his delight that the RLS had gone from €40,000.00 to €60,000.00.

Cllr. Ruddle asked how long do owners have to pay back the loan, how long do the owners

have to lease the property to LCCC and as house to apartment conversions require planning

permission. Ms. Ahern advised under the RLS owners can lease property to Council for a

period of between 5 and 25 years and for example, if a person leased the property to LCCC

for a period of 20 years, she noted that the loan could be then paid back over 18 years so full

payment would be gotten during the last 2 years. The properties that are brought to Housing

are assessed by the Allocations team to verify demand for that property in the area. Ms.

Ahern advised that there has not been many applications for units in rural villages and some

of the applications for these units had not been progressed as there was no demand for the

area as verified by Allocations.



Ms. Una Burns asked were the 23 units delivered over the last 5 years and Ms. Ahern

confirmed this and noted that the first unit was delivered in 2017. Ms. Burns asked how

Limerick compares to other cities with the delivery of the RLS. Ms. Ahern advised that we

are one of the highest counties for delivery under the scheme outside of Carlow and

Waterford and they were piloting the scheme for two years before the scheme was

introduced.



Ms. Dee Ryan asked about the advertisement of the scheme compared to other schemes

relating to vacant houses. Ms. Ahern advised that this is dealt with by another section but

Housing liaise with them regarding advertisement. Ms. Ryan asked how does the Vacant Site

Exemption relate to RLS in terms of planning. Ms. Ahern advised that as the scheme only

relates to vacant units being refurbished and not sites. Ms. Ryan advised she is very happy to

promote scheme through the Chamber channels. Ms. Ryan asked is the 12 month vacant

rule a national one and Ms. Ahern advised her that it is.



Cllr. Brigid Teefy noted that the increase in RLS funding is very welcome. Cllr. Teefy noted

the huge amount of vacant houses in the City and County. Cllr. Teefy asked is there a special

interest on loan and Ms. Ahern advised that it is a zero interest loan. Cllr. Teefy also queried

if there is a certain type of dwelling that would be taken on. Ms. Ahern advised that review

any vacant residential property. Cllr. Teefy asked does the property go back to the owner at

the end of the lease. Ms. Ahern advised it depends on the length of lease. Cllr. Teefy asked

could the house be in any place and Ms. Ahern advised it depends on the demand in a

particular area. Cllr. Teefy asked could the house be in any place and Ms. Ahern advised it

depends on the demand in a particular area.



Cllr. Stephen Keary noted that the rollout of scheme was not fast enough and he is glad the

funding had increased but noted it should be higher to get a good refurbishment. Cllr. Keary

asked what type of BER would the building have to go up to as all tenants should be getting

the same BER rating as a new build. Cllr. Keary asked are the LCCC tenants who are allocated

a RLS unit Garda vetted. Ms. Ahern acknowledged that the RLS funding is still too low and it

has been brought to the Departments attention and it is being looked at. Ms. Ahern advised

LCCC would look for a B minimum BER rating under the RLS. Mr. Rob Lowth and Ms. Ahern

advised the tenants are vetted the same as all LA tenants. Mr. Lowth asked the SPC

members to help promote this scheme. Cllr. Keary noted that we do need to make a

concerted effort to promote this scheme.



Cllr. Eddie Ryan asked is there a limit in the total budget available to LCCC and is there a time

limit on the scheme. Ms. Ahern asked there is no limit on funding available to LCCC and it is

running as part of Housing For All. Cllr. John Costelloe queried if the property owner passes

on is the Council protected and Ms. Ahern advised him that we are protected and the tenant

is protected for the duration of the lease period if the owner passes.
---


Ms. Burns asked can a commercial unit used for the scheme and Ms. Ahern advised yes, the

owner can look for a planning exemption but a site cannot be used for the scheme, an

existing unit must be there. Ms. Burns asked have we had many applications for commercial

units and Ms. Ahern advised we did not.



Cllr. Ryan asked for presentation to be circulated after SPC.

**Item 4: Energy Efficiency Update** **–** **David Leahy**

Mr. Leahy gave a presentation to the members of the SPC regarding an update on the Energy

Efficiency programme.

Mr. Leahy noted that LCCC have approval from the Department of Housing to upgrade 60 homes

across the City and County. Mr. Leahy advised a contractor is being appointed and follow up

meetings are happening with residents. Mr. Leahy hopes to start the project at the end of this

month and Covid-19 has delayed the project but expects to have project completed in the allocated

timeframe which is the end of Oct 2021. Mr. Leahy outlined the criteria for identifying houses for

the scheme to SPC members.

Mr. Leahy noted that the funds available per house was approx. €27,000.00 per unit and total

funding allocated to LCCC was just over €1.6million. Mr. Leahy advised that the programme had to

achieve a B2 energy rating and over 50% of selected houses for the programme had an energy rating

of E1 or less.

Mr. Leahy outlined the eligible works which include attic insulation, external wall insulation, internal

wall insulation (where required), new windows and doors, heat pump heating systems, LED lighting

and BER certification. Mr. Leahy noted that the monies have increased for some works on the

programme compared to 2020 but advised that there has been lack of funding for gas boilers which

was an attempt to move away from unsustainable methods of heating houses.

Mr. Leahy advised that the Government have implemented a tracking system within the project for

2021 and every LA are required to give an update of the progress of their houses as they are being

upgraded.

Mr. Leahy noted that an add-on for this year, in conjunction with NUIG, is that they are running a

research development programme and they are looking at the social and health benefits of a project

such as this. Mr. Leahy noted that he has had great feedback from tenants from last year’s

programme in relation to their air quality in their homes.

Mr. Leahy advised that this year they are focusing on better tenant engagement particularly due to

new heating systems being installed.

Mr. Leahy noted that he would like to come back to the October SPC with an update.

A discussion took place and the main points where:



Cllr. Keary asked what the cost was per unit last year versus this year. Cllr. Keary asked does

this project include provisions for replacing defective windows and doors and queried the

high cost for consultants. Cllr. Keary suggested that the work could have been done in-house

by LCCC. Mr. Leahy noted that the cost per house last year was €40,000.00 - €45,000.00

which included Dept. funding and internal LCCC funding. Mr. Leahy advised that windows

and doors would be replaced. Mr. Leahy advised that when there are a lot of specialist skills

involved when it comes to the design of heating systems and decisions around that and that
---
there is a huge safety element involved and noted the sheer scale of the project. Mr. Leahy

then noted the consultant is also the contractor who is fully involved in the project and that

there is no conflict of interest. Mr. Leahy noted that there is a requirement in the Dept.

circular that the LA must engage with an obligated party and the obligated party is the

consultant. Ms. Tracy McElligott asked has there been any learning used from the Thermal

Upgrade programme in Regeneration areas. Ms. McElligott queried the 8 units listed on the

presentation for Metro North and asked, do they include the Thermal Upgrades in

Regeneration areas. Mr. Leahy advised that they are separate programmes, and the 8 units

are for the Energy Efficient project only. Ms. McElligott asked will those homes be issued

with a new BER cert when the works are completed, Mr. Leahy confirmed that they would

be issued with a new cert. Ms. McElligott noted from her experience with the Thermal

Upgrade programme that some of the residents would be unsure of the new installed

systems even after two years as they are technical, and their costs have increased

significantly. Mr. Leahy noted that a learning from last year’s Energy Efficiency project was

that there needs to be better tenant engagement due to the technical systems and proper,

accurate engagement is a key focus on project this year.



Cllr. Sharon Benson agreed with Ms. McElligott’s point regarding tenant engagement and

thanked LCCC staff for working with tenants through those issues. Cllr. Benson noted the

importance of identifying the issues and engaging with tenants and Cllr. Benson welcomes

the focus of the follow up of tenant engagement but stressed the importance of early initial

engagement with tenants which she advised, needs to be looked at.



Cllr. Ruddle noted that some constituents in Newcastle West have advised that their bills

have been high with the heat pump system, but he recognises this could be a budgeting

issue and advice to tenants would be welcomed.



Cllr. John Costelloe agreed with Cllr. Benson’s and Ms. McElligott’s points around the heating

systems in Regeneration areas. Cllr. Costelloe noted that there are many houses in

Ballynanty that are still very cold.



Ms. Ryan asked is it possible for people who are availing of funding for Repair and Lease to

avail of the grants. Mr. Rob Lowth noted that the R&L scheme is for private owners and the

Energy Efficiency programme is for LA tenants. Cllr. Conor Sheehan advised that there needs

to be a concerted effort around educating tenants on how to use these systems and

suggested that they would be put in the tenant handbook. Cllr. Sheehan raised a concern

around some Thermal Upgrades in Ballynanty and noted that there should have been a

better line up between the Thermal Upgrade project and the Operation and Maintenance

section of LCCC as some of houses who had received thermal upgrades still need a lot of

other work done. Cllr. Sheehan noted from his experience some tenants have their

thermostat at the highest the whole time.



Mr. PJ O’Grady queried what happens with Semi-Detached houses where one house is

upgraded and the other one has not been upgraded and the downpipe is in the other house.

Mr. Leahy noted the importance of this issue being addressed and he advised that in

situations like this this year, the gutters could be extended across the private house as well,

all the way down to the downpipe and the problem would be eliminated totally.

**Item 5** **–** **Air to Water Pump Report**

Mr. Leahy gave a presentation on the Air to Water Pump system, and he outlined how the Air to

Water Pump system worked.

Mr. Leahy noted the system is run on 100% electricity and advised that the thermostat monitors the

room temperature and compares it to a target setting. Mr. Leahy advised that the tenant could

choose a target temperate and noted that for example, if the target temperature were set at 20
---
degrees and the thermostat registers the room at 15 degrees, the room would then be heated to 20

degrees and then revert to standby mode.

Mr. Leahy advised the importance of putting the thermostat in an area where there are no direct

draughts or direct sunlight and noted that this was an issue last year that would be rectified this

year.

Mr. Leahy outlined the energy efficiency of the heat pump system and noted the differences

between the Air to Air Pump system (used in single storey houses generally) and the Air to Water

system (larger two-storey houses).

Mr. Leahy noted that there have been reports where electricity bills had been extremely high

following installation of heat pumps and tenants had reported issues using the systems, as they can

be difficult to understand. Mr. Leahy noted that for any tenant who had come to LCCC with an issue,

they have had their problems investigated and Mr. Leahy advised SPC members to come to him if

any of their constituents reported a problem from last year’s scheme so that this could be

investigated.

Mr. Leahy outlined some of the problems that had been identified; some of them included heat

pumps being used like traditional heating systems which means a tremendous amount of electricity

is being used. Mr. Leahy noted that a lot of thermostat controls were not being used correctly.

Mr. Leahy outlined typical costings of the system for tenants to SPC members and advised large

potential savings for tenants. Mr. Leahy noted that a commitment to training LCCC staff in these

systems and a commitment to working with tenants and assisting them is also important to ensure

savings.

A discussion took place and the main points were:



Cllr. Brigid Teefy asked Mr. Leahy to attend a Municipal District meeting and present on the

project. Cllr. Teefy also noted that she would be interested in the results of the NUIG survey.

Cllr. Teefy noted the issues for tenants around using the system but was glad that Mr. Leahy

and LCCC had recognised those issues and are committed to working with the tenants to

rectify them. Cllr. Brigid Teefy asked how many units were selected for Cappamore-

Killmallock and how were they selected. Mr. Leahy advised that 18 units had been selected

for the Cappamore-Killmallock MD.



Cllr. Benson asked had LCCC gone back to those houses were there had been a report of high

bills or would he consider doing a survey for all the houses that have had the system fitted

to evaluate the overall system. Mr. Leahy advised that LCCC are looking at installing meters

in those houses to record electricity usage and investigations were conducted on houses

that had reported high bills. Mr. Leahy advised every unit has a little black box that records

usage of electricity and the information had been downloaded and analysed by the specialist

contractors and that follow on support would continue. Mr. Leahy noted that the systems

are working correctly.



Mr. Lowth noted that when a person lets a Pre-Pay meter run out (effectively the power

being cut off) and then when the system receives power again, the system would have to

effectively “ramp up” to an optimal level so this would cost a person more. Mr. Lowth noted

that for budgetary reasons people would choose this way for their electricity supply but that

it could end up costing the person more. Mr. Leahy noted that when Pre-Pay Power does run
---
out that it is exceedingly difficult to get the system fired back up again and becomes

expensive and noted the validity of Mr. Lowth’s point.

**Item 6 - HAP Review**

Mr. Lowth gave a presentation to SPC members on the current HAP process versus the implications

of Garda Vetting at HAP stage on HAP applications. Mr. Lowth noted the extensive discussions

around this at previous SPCs and he also noted that it had gone to full Council and ended back at SPC

level.

Mr. Lowth noted that currently for a person who applies for housing with LCCC and who are going to

have a house allocated to them through LCCC, they would have been on the HWL already and it is

only at the point of allocation that they Garda Vet the person.

Mr. Lowth noted under HAP however, the arrangement is between the landlord and the tenant and

LCCC facilitate the payment of the housing support to the landlord on behalf of the tenant. The

tenant would pay the LA the rent.

Mr. Lowth outlined the process for the landlord and the tenant through the HAP process and noted

that the turnaround for processing the forms would be approx. 5 days and a tenant could move into

their new home within 5 days.

Mr. Lowth noted that if LCCC were to Garda vet a tenant at the point of the forms being received,

we would be looking at potentially a 30-day turnaround, which is what is takes for an allocation of an

LA or RAS property now.

Mr. Lowth advised that if LCCC were to vet at the application stage, there would be a delay with the

process and it would add pressure on the team who are dealing with 140 – 160 housing applications

a month, which Mr. Lowth noted is a huge increase on the last five years.

Mr. Lowth also advised that if an individual has been approved on the HWL and there is awareness

that that person may not have a house allocated for a number of years, the Garda Vetting needs to

be re-done to show due diligence.

Mr. Lowth noted that there would be a marked increase in the homeless figure if the Garda Vetting

were to be applied to HAP tenants due to the delay with processing the applications. Mr. Lowth

advised that the solution would be that if LCCC receive information in relation to anti-social

behaviour in a HAP tenancy, LCCC could, through its own powers, and with the help of An Garda

Siochana, run the various checks at that point in time. If the behaviour was deemed serious enough,

LCCC can then go down the route of stopping the HAP payment to that landlord. Mr. Lowth did note

that that would not guarantee that the person would leave the property but it would ensure that

there would no longer be a state support on the property.

A discussion took place and the main points where:



Cllr. Ruddle queried how other LA’s work with HAP applications. Mr. Lowth advised that

other LA’s would operate similar to LCCC and not Garda Vet potential HAP tenants.



Cllr. Keary expressed his concern that LCCC would not Garda Vet the potential HAP tenant

the same way LCCC vets LA and RAS tenants. Cllr. Keary expressed his desire for an overall

HAP review and Mr. Lowth agreed with Cllr. Keary’s point.
---


Cllr. Slattery shared her experience of an individual who had a HAP tenant that left the

property in a poor state, leaving the individual to spend a significant amount of money

refurbishing the property and Cllr. Slattery asked, would there be anything available for

people in that situation. Mr. Lowth advised not from a HAP perspective and it would come

down to landlord/tenant management and regular visits from landlord to property. Cllr.

Slattery asked is there scope for the landlord to call LCCC in a case such as this and report it.

Mr. Lowth noted that it would be important for evidence to be provided by the landlord in a

case such as this and costings etc… Cllr. Slattery noted she would follow up with individual to

ensure a complaint is lodged with LCCC.



Mr. McNamara noted as HAP is a shared service nationally, that dealing with the noted

issues would need to be looked at nationally. Mr. McNamara queried if there would be any

evidence of tenancies being registered with the Residential Tenancies Board (RTB) before

payment starts to be made. Mr. McNamara felt that this would help with a lot of the anti-

social issues and then enforcement could be conducted through those channels. Mr. Lowth

advised yes LCCC would have to have the evidence that the property is registered with the

RTB.



Ms. Cronin commented that HAP is a social welfare support and noted that it is the only

recourse that many people would have and there are many good examples of how it has

worked well for people that are on the HWL and while it is not ideal, it is something that

bridges the gap in the meantime. Ms. Cronin also noted that landlords cannot refuse a HAP

tenant and that we should not be encouraging any landlord to.



Cllr. Kiely noted an issue with long standing RAS/HAP agreements where the property was

left in very poor condition when the tenants moved on to the allocated LA property. Cllr.

Kiely asked if a tenant is allocated a LA property, how much notice do they give to the

landlord as landlords had approached her regarding this issue. Cllr. Kiely would like LCCC to

check with landlords for references. Mr. Lowth advised that we are not legislated to check

references as a LA but he would need to look into it from a legal basis as it’s a very good

suggestion.Mr. Lowth advised he would need to look into it from a legal basis as it’s a very

good suggestion. Cllr. Kiely stressed the importance of checking references if this could be

implemented.



Cllr. Sheehan advised that in his experience he would be inclined to be cautious about

anything that would lengthen the approval of a property on HAP and put people at risk.



Cllr. Ruddle noted that if LCCC took more responsibility for tenants that more people would

be inclined to rent their properties out for HAP tenants and gave an account of his

experience.

*An Cathaoirleach, Cllr. Michael Murphy asked for proposer to allow the meeting to run over*

*the two hours agreed time within the Standing Order in order for the remaining agenda to be*

*discussed as next SPC would not be until October 2021.*

**Proposed: Cllr. Eddie Ryan**

**Item 7** **–** **General Update**

a) Demolition Update (Ballinacurra Weston and Southill)

Mr. Declan White update to SPC members on Regeneration demolitions.

Mr. White noted that recent completed demolitions in O’Malley Park stand at five units and he

outlined impending demolitions being worked on are units in Roseview Drive, currently out to

tender.
---
Mr. White noted team are currently working on the preparation of tender documents to go to

tender for Valley View (five) units and a unit in Roseview Drive.

Mr. White advised that preparations are underway preparing documentation and specifications to

demolish a unit in Rose Court and two commercial units in Southill.

Mr. White noted that they are currently finishing up on site on two units in Rathbane Court and a

unit in Rathbane Terrace (reinstating gable currently).

Mr. White noted that there had been demolitions for two units in Byrne Avenue and currently

reinstating gable for another unit in Byrne Avenue. Mr. White noted that they had just completed a

demolition for a unit in Clarina Avenue and should be finished on site this week.

Mr. White outlined that a unit in Crecora Avenue is next for demolition after Rathbane Avenue.

A discussion took place and the main points where:



Cllr. Leddin asked for an update on proposed road linking off Byrne Avenue to Hyde Road.

Mr. White noted that the road is to be delivered as part of the future masterplan and infill

housing. Cllr. Leddin asked is there a plan to link road to Lenihan Avenue and Cllr. Leddin

asked for that to be sent to SPC members. Mr. White noted that the road could be linked

into Lenihan Avenue when other demolitions are complete on that particular road but there

are no plans to deliver that in the short term.



Ms. McElligott asked for e-mail on Thermal Upgrades for Regeneration areas as no update

was given at SPC.



Cllr. Keary asked how many houses are being demolished under this project and what is the

aim and is there Part 8 planning for demolitions. Mr. White outlined in Southill

approximately 79 houses left to be demolished, approx. 13 in Ballinacurra Weston. Mr.

White noted that LCCC are under the threshold for demolition in Regeneration in terms of

housing and is currently looking at the requirement for Part 8 planning permission for

Galvone. Cllr. Keary queried the Part 8 exemption. Ms. Newell advised there is an exemption

under the Part 8 regulations if it is under €126,000.00 works are exempt.

b) Orchard Site Update

Mr. Billy Lynch gave an update on the Orchard Site to SPC members.

Mr. Lynch outlined that the Orchard Site is a development located close to King John’s Castle

comprising twenty-seven one and two bed units and detail design has been completed on the

development. Mr. Lynch noted that a Stage Three Application is with the Department.

c) Service Sites Fund Update

Mr. Mick Forde Bradley gave an update on the Service Sites Fund to SPC members.

Mr. Forde Bradley advised that the presentation would be brief, as a Housing Workshop on the

Service Sites would be given to members in July.
---
Mr. Forde Bradley introduced himself as project manager of the Service Sites Fund along with

colleague, Ms. Andrea Goble. He noted that they are working on five City Centre sites currently to

provide affordable and social apartment units. Mr. Forde Bradley outlined the fund was set up by

the Government to support LAs in the provision of key enabling infrastructure, streets etc to get the

sites ready for affordable housing. He outlined LCCCs target is 20% below market rents for

comparable apartment unit.

d) Revision to Household Means Policy Circular Information

Mr. Lowth gave update to SPC members on the Revision to Household Means Policy Circular.

Mr. Lowth noted that there had been circulars issued to all in relation to the change in assessing

people for social housing.

Mr. Lowth noted that if a person is employed, they would have their previous twelve months income

looked at as opposed to a number of pay slips. Mr. Lowth advised that it is the same for people in

receipt of social welfare payments for twelve months and self-employed, income to be looked at up

to two years.

Mr. Lowth advised that this is something that will become topical for people applying for housing.

Mr. Lowth advised a Workshop for all Councillors and SPC members on the revision as it is quite

detailed.

Cllr. Benson asked for slides to be sent to them and Mr. Lowth noted that documents would be sent

out to all SPC members and all Councillors.

e) Recommendations from Council meetings

Ms. Duke confirmed that the approval for the Amended Scheme of Priorities which incorporates the

revision for Affordable Dwellings has gone through full Council.

**Item 8 - AOB**



Cllr. Keary asked about the programme for completion of units in Clonmacken and what is

the cost overrun on it. Ms. Duke advised that an update would be given at the next SPC in

October. Cllr. Keary noted that he would consider submitting a question on this for the next

full Council meeting in order to get an update.



Ms. McElligott queried the re-zoning of the land along the Coonagh-Knockalisheen Road that

had previously been zoned for economic development. Ms. Duke acknowledged Ms.

McElligott’s formal question which had been received and Ms. Duke advised a formal reply

would be sent. Ms. McElligott noted that there had been a concern in the community

around how much land had been rezoned for private developers and how much land is left

for residential and economic development. Ms. Cronin advised that the linkage group had

submitted a question on behalf of the PPN and noted that there is a lot of concern around

the issue that Ms. McElligott raised. An Cathaoirleach, Cllr. Michael Murphy, noted that

there had been no decisions taken on re-zoning and anything submitted are just suggestions

for the Development Plan. An Cathaoirleach, Cllr. Michael Murphy, advised that members of

the public are welcome to put in submissions against this if they so wished and noted that

this is not the correct forum for it
---


Mr. O’Grady asked for an update on the unfinished estate in Patrickswell and noted he was

promised a response at the last SPC meeting. Ms. Duke apologised and advised they would

follow up with an update on this over the next couple of days.

END OF MEETING

The Chair wished Ms. Aoife Duke a fond farewell and thanked her for all her help over the years.

The Chair thanked everyone for logging in, for their presentations and everyone’s valuable

contributions.
---
