1

**Minutes of the Meeting of Limerick City and County Council’s Travel and Transportation**

**Strategic Policy Committee held on 20th** **June 2023 at 3:00 p.m. in the Council Chamber,**

**Doooradoyle and ONLINE by MS Teams Video Conference.**

**Members Present:** Cllrs. Novak (Chair), Butler, Collopy, Kilcoyne, Leddin, McSweeney,

O’Donovan, Secas, Sheahan (J), Sheahan (M), Teefy, Mr. T. O’Brien, Mr. S. Golden, Mr. B. Harper,

Mr. F. Heffernan.

**Officials Present**: Mr. B. Kennedy, Ms. A. Leahy, Mr. J. Cregan, Ms. K. McDonnell, Mr. H. McGrath,

Ms. M. Corrigan, Ms. N. McGarry, Ms. M. Fitzgerald, Mr. S. McGlynn, Ms. S. Kennedy, Mr. Tom

Hayes.

**Other Invitees:** Mr. Eric Clarke, Cllr. A. Teskey, Cllr. S. Keary.

The Chair opened the meeting and welcomed the recently nominated Business/Commercial

sector representative, Mr. Seán Golden, replacing Mr. Diarmuid O’Shea.

**Item 1: Minutes:**

The Minutes of the Meeting of the Travel and Transportation Strategic Policy Committee held on

the 18th of April 2023 were proposed by Cllr. J. Leddin, seconded by Cllr. D. Butler and adopted.

**Item 2:** **To agree dates for SPC Meetings for 2024:**

The members agreed the following dates for SPC Meetings in 2024

 **Tuesday, the 13th of February 2024 at 3:00 p.m.**

 **Tuesday, the 16th of April 2024 at 3:00 p.m.**

 **Tuesday, the 18th of June 2024 at 3:00 p.m.**

**Item 3: Presentation on Upcoming Campaign on Illegal Parking** **–** **Communications Team:**

Mr. Eric Clarke delivered a presentation on a joint initiative between Limerick City and County

Council and An Garda Siochána (AGS), conveying a simple message ‘Think Before You Park’

(Image omitted)---
2

The members thanked Mr. Clark and welcomed the campaign. The Chair opened the floor to

questions.

Cllr. Secas stated that the tagline is strong and will make people mindful of where they park. She

added that signs and double yellow lines in housing estates are not being noticed and would like

illegal parking around schools and neighboring estates during collection times added to the list.

She suggested that the absence of a physical ticket by AGS on a car does not mean the owner has

not been fined and this fact should be communicated on Twitter.

Cllr. Leddin stated that practical measures help in certain areas, and he referenced illegal parking

at Colbert Station. He added that stickers on cars would be a deterrent and should be examined,

as no visual ticket on a vehicle gives the perception of a ‘free for all’. He referenced signs erected

by management companies that fines will be issued for illegal parking.

Cllr. O’Donovan asked what the campaign will look like when it is in place. She referenced the

illegal parking on the cycle lane on Parnell Street and enquired what happens if people do not

pay the fine.

In response to questions, Mr. Clarke confirmed that he is in discussion with An Garda Siochána

in relation to the placement of stickers for a limited time, however, this would need to be

approved by An Garda Siochána Head office. Regarding non-payment, a fine is increased by 50%

after 28 days and a summons to court is issued after 90 days. He added that the campaign is at

the early stages of planning and the next steps are to promote the campaign by advertising on

radio, issue a press release and to get the ‘Step Forward’ Disability group on board to do a social

media campaign.

Mr. Golden referenced the 92% success rate in payment of fines and added that the Chamber

would be supportive if it is within the Council’s remit to increase the fine. Mr. Kennedy confirmed

that fines are nationally set.

Mr. Harper stated that the campaign will only be effective for a small minority of people and we

really need to concentrate on enforcement. Cllr. Collopy referenced the illegal parking on

Wickham Street where motorists have to turn onto the cycle lane. Enforcement is needed in that

area.

The Chair asked if visuals will be considered and if people with buggies, wheelchairs etc. will be

included. She referenced parking at schools and suggested liaising with school principals. There

is a lot of sign clutter on streets already and asked if signs can be erected at bus stops. Will there

be an increased presence of the Gardaí when campaign is up and running and is there a baseline

to inform us if we are successful or not.

In response, Mr. Clarke stated that a visual medium is a good way to get the message across and

the national broadcaster can be examined. It has yet to be decided what the signage will read

and where it might go. He reiterated that the Gardaí are fully committed to the campaign.---
3

Cllr. Butler stated he is not in favor of anymore bollards or signage as most signs are ignored and

enforcement is needed. He added that in his opinion it is unfair to use photos in the presentation

as Limerick is a small place and people can be identified.

Cllr. Leddin stated that that it would be helpful to get details on the number and types of fines

i.e. parking at bus stops / disabled spaces. He asked what the plan is after 5 / 6 pm when traffic

wardens are off duty. He also agreed that there is enough signage and more Gardaí presence is

needed.

Cllr. Secas stated that enforcement requires effort from all stakeholders and she is aware more

schools are sending out notices to parents. She suggested that there should be a focus around

the estates near UL and it might also be an idea to go to schools to give talks to children.

Mr. Heffernan referred to exiting Ashbrook onto Ennis Road, one has to edge their car out to get

access onto the main road. E scooters come up on the blind side and something needs to be

done regarding safety measures.

Mr. Clarke added that the presentation is a city and county awareness campaign which will

inform people to park properly and he can also liaise with schools on the campaign. Regarding

enforcement and more Gardaí presence, he cannot answer on behalf of the Gardaí. The matter

of enforcement after 6pm is also a matter for the Gardaí. He added that a survey will be

conducted to determine the success of the campaign and a second one maybe in a year after the

campaign is in place. He will request information on the types of fines issued.

Cllr. Teskey while not a member of this SPC asked if the matter is more an issue for forward

planning e.g. more car parks are needed. LCCC would be better advised to look where resources

are and put in the necessary infrastructure in towns and villages as this is lacking.

Cllr. Secas congratulated Cllr. Teskey as Chair of the MD of Adare-Rathkeale for the fifth time.

The Chair agreed to move to item 5 on the agenda.

**Item 5: Notice of Motion submitted by the Municipal District of Adare-Rathkeale - Councillors**

**A. Teskey (Proposer), S. Keary, E. O’Brien, J. O’Donoghue, K. Sheahan** ***(referred from full***

***Council May Meeting)***

We will move at the next meeting that Limerick City and County Council change its policy in

relation to its stance on non-national tertiary roads and include a minimum of two per year in

the Schedule of Municipal District Works for reconstruction to start the process.

In proposing the Motion, Cllr. Teskey stated that the state of the national roads, N21, N69 and

road into Adare are in bad condition. He has requested TII to come to the MD meeting numerous

times but to no avail. The Adare-Rathkeale area has an immense amount of cul-de-sac roads like

Pallaskenry, Ballysteen, some with one house and some with 6 houses.---
4

He referenced the CIS form where an applicant, who has already paid taxes has to contribute

10% of the cost of the works. He is now asking formally to change this policy as it is failing and

has to change. He has asked that something be done in a structured style and is told it depends

on how many people live on the road.

Cllr. Keary fully supported the Motion adding that there is enormous money allocated for other

services and no money for tertiary roads in need of repair. An audit is needed of all tertiary roads

and the number of kms involved, then a policy put in place on a separate budget.

In a written response, Mr. Hugh McGrath stated the following:

Community Involvement Scheme (CIS)

The current approach towards funding improvements to Local Tertiary roads is guided and

influenced by the opportunities provided for additional funding under the Community

Involvement Scheme and the need to comply with grant requirements. CIS provides for grant

funding to be available for roads that are not otherwise easy to prioritise in the main (Block grant)

and provides additional money for the authority. The scheme while not exclusive to Local

Tertiaries but local tertiary roads make up the majority of applications. (Grant for Road

Improvements and resurfacing in the Annual Roadworks Programme as approved in the Schedule

of Municipal District Works by the Elected Members).

All roads including Local Tertiary Roads are considered under the main grant. However, it needs

to be allocated across all the non-national road network in Limerick, which runs in excess of 3,800

km and the Council is obliged to ensure that expenditure under the main block grant is prioritised

and justified in terms of importance, need and residents/road users serviced by the works. The

main grant for 2023 is €15.6m. CIS grant for 2023 is €0.58m.

Limerick City and County Council completed 20 schemes under CIS with a total length of approx.

14km in 2020 and 2021. The Council successfully secured a grant of €713,900 in 2022 completing

23 schemes. In 2023 a grant of €584,100 was approved to carry out 14 further schemes.

It should be noted that the grant approved relates to applications received and in recent years

full funding has been approved and completed on applications received.

Despite the success of the CIS scheme, it should be noted that the Council completed 16

improvement schemes on Local Tertiaries to a total length of 15km in 2021 & 2022 under the

main grant programme. The Council will continue to consider all roads including local tertiaries

for future roadworks programme. Prioritising a road category such as Local Tertiaries for a

minimum number to be included in the annual programme would not be in accordance with

current guidance and would likely result in lost funding for such roads.

Cllr. Teskey appreciated the response and the viewpoint but added that he needs direction on

how to change policy and suggested that tertiary roads should go into a specific budget.---
5

Cllr. Keary suggested that a part solution would be to adapt a policy for a tax clawback/refund

when the residents make a contribution, i.e. apply to central government to claim back some tax.

Mr. Kennedy stated that he will bring the proposal in relation to tax refund to the DoT and liaise

with TII in relation to maintenance of national roads.

Mr. McGrath stated that Councillors can also make the decision to include tertiary roads when

approving the annual schedule of municipal district works, but to be mindful that this would

reduce funding for local roads.

Cllr. Teskey wished to propose a policy that LCCC add a separate budget allocation for tertiary

roads. Mr. Kennedy stated that the funding requirement in relation to road maintenance would

have to be considered as part of the annual budget process.

Mr. McGrath stated that all regional and local primary roads are audited (assessed for condition)

every 2 years and local tertiary roads are assessed every 5 years. Cllr. Teskey requested a detailed

list of all tertiary roads in the three municipal districts. Mr. McGrath advised that he will circulate

a report to the Adare-Rathkeale Municipal District.

**Item 4: Update on BusConnects**

Mr. Kennedy referenced the presentation delivered by the NTA at the SPC Meeting held on the

18th of April last. Area briefings were held on the 7th of June. Over 600 submissions were

received and the NTA is currently processing these in detail and how they can be incorporated

into the draft design. It is too early to determine if the changes constitute a material change.

The network should be completed by the autumn.

Mr. Golden asked if there will be a second public consultation. He has concerns about the bus

route to Annacotty and a second public consultation would be welcome. Cllr. Secas also asked if

a second round of public consultation was possible for Limerick.

Mr. Kennedy stated that the NTA is not averse to the idea of a second round and will put the

request to the NTA. The Chair stated that she would welcome further engagement especially as

it has happened in other cities and members would like a second round of public consultation.

The Chair thanked the presenters and members for their contribution. The meeting then

concluded.---
