*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  
Comhairle Cathrach Pleanail, Comhshaol agus Cruthu Aite
_—_—_—_ i Covlina Laltsodon Comhairle Cathrach agus Contae Luimnigh

Ars ———— a Luimneach
—=_— Limerick City Planning, Environment and Place-Mal

& County Council fea et City and Couney Cons

Limerick

MINUTES OF PROCEEDINGS OF MEETING OF THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT, ENTERPRISE AND
PLANNING STRATEGIC POLICY COMMITTEE HELD ON MONDAY, 10 JULY 2023 at 4PM IN COUNCIL
CHAMBER, DOORADOYLE AND ONLINE

‘

PRESENT IN THE CHAIR: Councillor Bridie Collins

MEMBERS PRESENT: Councillors: Daniel Butler, Liam Galvin, Stephen Keary, John O'Donoghue,
Olivia O’Sullivan, Sasa Novak Ui Chonchiir, Joe Pond, James Collins, Eddie Ryan

SECTORAL INTERESTS/ PPN NOMINEES: Michael Joyce, Declan Hehir, Brian Thompson

OTHERS: Mike Quaid, Construction Director of Homeland
Ronan O’Brien, Executive, CIF Southern Region

OFFICIALS PRESENT: Vincent Murray, Cecilia Larkin, Caroline Chambers, Planning, Environment &
Place-Making; Rory Corbett, Trade & Investment; Mike Cantwell, LEO; Alan Dooley, Digital Strategy;
Paraic Rattigan, MW Regional Enterprise;

APOLOGIES;
Councillor: Martin Ryan, Jerome Scanlan

item 1

Adoption of Minutes from Economic Development, Enterprise and Planning SPC Meeting of 10 July
2023.

There was one change to the draft minutes. Brian Thompson, PPN, asked that the following be
amended:

Brian Thompson, PPN asked for his contribution on Taking in Charge to be recorded in the minutes;
Mr Thompson recommended that a transfer agreement be signed between a consultant and the
developer to transfer liability from the developer to the consultant. Ms Nuala O'Connell, Planning
Environment & Place Making, confirmed that Mr Thompson’s contribution had been received and
thot an update on the toking in charge process would be circulated soon.

Mr Thompson made the point that the draft proposals have the liability imposed on the Consultant
and not with the Developer as it would be unlikely that the RIAI and Engineers Ireland would allow
its members to sign such an undertaking and for individual consultants to do so. It was
acknowledged as a good point at the meeting and an undertaking was given by officials to review
the proposals with the LCCC Legal Advisors and return to the committee on this matter.

The draft minutes were adopted on the proposal of Clir. Eddie Ryan, seconded by Cllr. Stephen
Keary.

Matters arising from the minutes:

Brian Thompson asked if review of the taking in charge process has been done. Response was that
this Is in hand and LCCC currently getting legal advice. There will be additional workshops in
August/September. Mr Thompson responded that he looks forward to getting the review by next
meeting.

---
*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  
The Economic Development, Enterprise and Planning SPC Meeting now sits with the Planning,
Environment & Place-Making Directorate.

Keith Enright and Diarmuid O'Shea have resigned from the Committee. Replacements will be
nominated at the next meeting.

Item 2

Update on Planning Circulars, Development Contribution Waiver by Dara McGuigan,
Administrative Officer, Planning.

Mr McGuigan gave a presentation to members on Circular Letter PL-04-2023. Main points from the
presentation included:

¢ Waiver applies to all residential developments for one year — from 25" April 2023 to 24"
April 2024.

¢ Applies to all residential developments that commence on site between the above dates and
is completed no later than 31* December 2025. Will also apply to residential developments
where Commencement Notice was submitted to the Local Authority on or after 28" March
2028 and to residential developments for which a 7 Day Notice was submitted to the Local
Authority on or after 4” April 2023.

¢ Developer/promotor will not pay OC to LA but will have to submit Commencement Notice to
LA, LA will draw down the levy from the DHLGH on a monthly basis, verify that development
has commenced on site and that the project has completed within the timeframes.
Developers/promotors have to pay Uisce Eireann water and waste water connection
charges.

¢ Additional guidance has been sought from DHLGH and they are developing detailed
guidance on scheme operation for LAs.

Members thanked Mr McGuigan for his presentation and raised the following queries:

© The Circular states the waiver is for residential properties, is there any waiver for
developments such as extensions? Mr McGuigan responded that there is no clarity around
extensions.

¢ The scheme began in April, has there been monitoring of applications since then. Mr
McGuigan responded that applications monitored on 2 monthly basis and have been for the
last 2 years. Over the last 3 months there has been 140 to 150 per month.

¢ tf commencement notice came in in early March is it not eligible for waiver? The cut-off date
as per the Circular is 28" March so it would be exempt.

* In the instance where the developer/promotor submitted the Commence Notice early, can
this notice be cancelled and resubmitted? Mr McGuigan responded that there would be
cases where Commencement Notices are resubmitted.

¢ it was queried that if there was no contribution being collected will the LA be reimbursed?
The LA will be invoicing the DHLGH on 2 monthly basis to collect the contribution.

¢ Is the waiver subject to tax? No guidance regarding tax in Circular but there may be in the
additional guidance from DHLGH. Not a tax issue. Unknown what the uptake in the waiver
will be as it will take developers time to mobilise before submitting a Commencement
Notice to LA. It may be September before those figures emerge.

© Does waiver cover Group Water Scheme? Response, these schemes are not specified in the
Circular. Response — this is not covered in Circular.

---
*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  
Cllr Keary proposed the following on the Group Water Scheme:

| will move at the next meeting that, Limerick City and County Council, call on Mr. Darragh
O’Brien, T.D., Minister for Housing, Local Government and Heritage to introduce support
measures for persons building houses whereby there are charges to group water schemes and
for private wells in line with his support measures for waiving section 48 development
contributions and the refunding of Uisce Eireann water and waste water connection charges.
This Is in the interest of fairness for those persons where Uisce Eireann connections are not
available.

The above was seconded by Cllr Ryan.

The Motion was brought before the July meeting of the Council.

Item 3:
Presentation from Ronan O’Brien, Executive, Construction Industry Federation (CIF).

Mr O'Brien gave an overview of the challenges facing developers that affect the viability of
constructing multi-unit private residential units in Limerick and outlined how the Local Authorities
can aid with the viability of development by:

¢ Reducing charges & levies. Studies have shown that up to 45% of the cost of a house are in
the forms of charges, levies and taxes. These costs used to be in the region of 20-25%.
Streamlining planning and taking in charge processes.

Ensuring the availability of serviced and zoned land.

Providing the infrastructure to service sites.

Collaborating with approved housing bodies and local builders to facilitate development on
lands that have planning.

Full presentation will be circulated to members.
Members thanked Mr O’Brien for his presentation and discussion followed:

*® No mention of refurbishments in presentation and building on brownfleld sites instead of
greenfield sites. Response — grants are targeted at homeowners and not developers and
there is little incentive to be gained for developers. The Living Over the Shop Scheme can be
a difficult process to accommodate all parties.

* Some discussion regarding high density numbers and if developers favour higher density
developments e.g. 28 per hectare. Response — density is relevant to area and what is being
sought. It was noted that there will be Government Guidelines in the not too distant future.
The Dept. of Housing, Local Government & Heritage is looking at how more housing can be
built on smaller sites and there was consultation in March 2023.

¢ Cllr Butler asked how loss of Development Levies will be filled, if the increased densities will
affect open spaces. Response was that the Government will reimburse LCCC for
Development Levies loss and that there is a strategy for playground throughout Limerick.

¢ Cllr Keary stated that the public transport infrastructure is not in Limerick to facilitate the
higher density developments and most houses now have 2/3 cars. There needs to be better
land use and better planning going forward.

There will be a taking in charge briefing at the next meeting.

---
*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  
ftem 4;
Presentation on Climate Action by Kieran Reeves, Climate Action Coordinator, Environment &
Climate Change

Mr Reeves gave a briefing on the LCCC Climate Action Plan which outlined:

Context

Requirements of the Plan
Work done to date
Timeline for the plan
Next steps

Members thanked Mr Reeves for his presentation and there was discussion as follows:

The understanding of the Chair, Cllr Collins, is that LCCC is responsible for their own Climate Action
Plan — Scope 1, 2 & 3 is what LCCC does itself other than communities.

Yes, Scope 1 & 2 is for emissions. Cllr Collins said that County Hall is very energy inefficient and
would it be worth having a presentation from Dr Kirrane, UCC, Head of Sustainability and Climate
Action at UCC to SPC/Full Council on what UCC did? Cllr Collins has a keen interest in this area as she
completed the AILG UCC Level 7 Course on Climate Action & Environment Protection.

Clir Ryan asked what kind of projects will be funded under the Community Climate Action Fund of
€811,000. Mr Reeves responded that it will be up to the communities and there is still guidance
coming forward on that matter.

Clir Keary asked if there will be assistance provided to local communities when putting together
funding applications. Response — yes, there will be a guide launch in September. Darren Barry,
Community Climate Action Officer, will work with communities.

Item 5
Presentation on Micro Audit Grant from Mike Cantwell, LEO.

Mr Cantwell gave members an overview of the Green for Micro Programme & Energy Efficiency
Grant. The Energy Efficiency Grant supports the investment in technologies and equipment
identified in a Green for Micro Report, GreenStart Report or a SEAI Energy Audit with 50% of eligible
costs up to maximum of €5,000.00. Eligible businesses will be assigned a Green for Micro Consultant
for 3 days to help make them more efficient.

The following are eligible for the Energy Grant:

e Small enterprises (employing between 1 - 50).

e Who have undertaken a Green for Micro, GreenStart or recent audit by SEAI registered
energy auditor and who are not currently clients of Enterprise Ireland/IDA.

e Who are established, registered and operate within the area of the Local Enterprise Office.

e Where turnover is in excess of €30,000.00 annually and business is trading in excess of this
month.

There was a query to clarify that while not all businesses are eligible for the grant, retail is eligible.

For full details of the scheme including a and vied costs, Ineligible businesses and how to
apply go to Gree prise Offic: e

Full details of scheme will be circulated to members.


---
*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  
Item 6
Any Other Business

Clir Stephen Keary raised an issue about a motion he put forward to discuss “Tier 4 Developments”
at recent council meeting. The motion was not discussed because the meeting had to be
abandoned. Maria Woods, Senior Planner, said the scheduled workshop did not go ahead. Mr
Murray advised that he is happy for Maria Woods, Senior Planner, to set up Working Groups on this
issue going forward.

No other business was raised.

Clir. B. Collins, Chairperson

---
