MINUTES OF PROCEEDINGS AT JOINT POLICING SUB COMMITTEE

MEETING OF THE MUNICIPAL DISTRICT OF CAPPAMORE-KILMALLOCK

HELD AT ARAS MAINCHIN SEOIGE,KILMALLOCK ON THURSDAY, 14th

DECEMBER, 2023, AT 2.00 P.M.

**PRESENT IN THE CHAIR:**

Councillor Michael Donegan, An Cathaoirleach.

**MEMBERS PRESENT:**

Councillors Carey, Egan, Mitchell, M Ryan, and Teefy.

Apologies: E Ryan

**OFFICIALS IN ATTENDANCE:**

Meetings Administrator (Ms. D. O’Brien); Director of Services for Transport and Infrastructure

(Mr B Kennedy), Senior Executive Engineer (Mr T McKechnie), Clerical Officer ( Ms. H. O’Neill)

Also in attendance: Superintendent Paul Reidy and Inspector Gary Thompson

1. Adoption of Minutes

**(i)**

Circulated copy of draft Minutes of September Meeting of the Joint Policing Committee

of Cappamore Kilmallock held on 21st September, 2023.

**Proposed by: Councillor Mitchell**

**Seconded by: Councillor Carey**

**And Resolved:**

“That the draft Minutes, as circulated, be taken as read and adopted and signed.”

Matters Arising

There were no matters arising
---
2

Report from Superintendent Reidy

Superintendent Reidy provided a brief overview of crime for Q3 2023 (compared to Q2 2023)

It was noted that these figures are provisional.

Type of crime

Q2 2023

Q3 2023

Ballyneety

Burglaries

3

2

Theft other

2

1

Assault causing harm

(detected)

1

Possession for sale and

supply

1

Drink Driving

1

Caherconlish

Burglaries

2

3

Theft other

3

4

Theft from shop

0

2

Assault minor (2

detected)

1

3

Possession for personal

use

1

Fraud

2

1

Criminal damage

1

1

A number of searches were undertaken and 10 checkpoint/patrols were conducted.

It was acknowledged that there are 4 Gardai in Caherconlish and 2 in Ballyneety, and the fact

that the proposed roster did not come into operation allowed the area to retain 4 units.

It was noted that there was no aggravation or interaction involved in the house burglaries, and

the fraud was all online, which is on the increase.
---
3

Report from Inspector Thompson

It was noted that these figures are provisional.

Inspector Thompson noted that there were 200 Fixed Charge Notices for road traffic incidents

over 3 months including tax/insurance/tyres etc.

He also provided a brief overview of crime for the quarter 2023

Type of crime

Assault of Gardai

2

Assault minor and causing harm ( 5 detected – not

all submit complaints)

18

Driving under the influence

3 (2 alcohol and 1 drugs)

Thefts from MPVs

4

Unauthorised taking of vehicle causing harm

1(detected)

Thefts from shops

12 ( 6 detected)

Other thefts (e.g. diesel/drive offs – some

unintentional)

12

Criminal damage

19 (2 detected) – some accidental

e.g. wing mirrors damaged.

Disorderly conduct

11 (5 detected)

Trespassing

2 (it was noted that the wildlife act is

helping detection with trespassing –

30 Gardai are now trained under the

wildlife act)

Burglaries

9 (1 detected)

Fraud

5 (decreasing)

Possession of drugs

4

Firework incidents

1

Threats to kill

1

A number of files were sent to the DPP.

The Elected members wished to acknowledge the work of the Gardai in the Municipal District.

They also wished to acknowledge the work of the Gardai in Dublin who attended the recent riots.

The Garda representatives outlined that an armed support unit is available in Limerick, which

would be available on short notice. This unit covers all units and training is ongoing.

The Elected Members raised the issue of complaints of the dangers of electric scooter.

Superintendent Reidy outlined that there is new legislation to be implemented covering Quad

bikes and e scooters. This legislation will have to be enforced throughout Europe.

There was acknowledgement of the patrols at Halloween, and those in attendance noted the

need to think of road safety at Christmas.
---
4

Inspector Thompson highlighted that An Garda Siochana are heavily dependent on calls from

the public in relation to criminal activity, and that calls played a large part in attending to bonfires

at Halloween.

Further to an enquiry by Councillor Egan, Superintendent Reidy and Inspector Thompson

outlined the Juvenile diversion programme, TUSLA referral and highlighted that there is no

criminal responsibility for children under 12 years.

Councillor Mitchell welcomed the introduction of the Wildlife act, and queried what follow up

takes place following a report of Domestic Abuse. The Garda representatives outlined that even

if a charge is not made, a risk assessment and evaluation tool is used to decide if a case needs to

be escalated, follow up is made with the victim and a pro arrest policy is used.

The importance of using the 999 emergency number was also highlighted as this will ensure that

the call is taken immediately and logged. The priority listing for cases through the emergency

line was outlined.

Councillor M Ryan highlighted the importance of visibility of the Gardai. Superintendent Reidy

outlined that Garda numbers have decreased and the need for increased numbers. Councillor

M Ryan suggested that a Notice of Motion be submitted through the full JPC meeting to request

an increase in Garda numbers in Limerick, in line with the increase in general population.

Superintendent Reidy outlined that the Garda Commissioner has suggested there is a need for

17-20,000 Gardai nationally, whereas there are currently only 12,000.

It was also noted that there are a lot of nighttime patrols taking place and the Gardai need to

prioritise the locations where these take place.

Councillor Donegan asked if there was an option for scanning number plates for the Gardai, and

Inspector Thompson demonstrated an app that is used to scan number plates and identify

owners of vehicles, records etc.

The laser property marking kit demonstrated by Muintir na Tire was highlighted. It was

suggested that a driving licence number be used in marking property as this is unique to the

owner and easily traceable.

The Garda representatives offered that crime prevention awareness meetings can be held with

communities.

Councillor Teefy raised the issue of speed on the roads. Superintendent Reidy outlined that An

Garda Siochana do not have their own speed vans and contract Go Safe to do speed checkes.

Also, the location for any speed checks needs to be safe to park at. If there are particular black

spots in the area speed checks can be undertaken following a complaint being registered.

However, it was noted that social media highlighting the location of speed vans can hamper this

work.

The Director of services outlined that the Road Safety plan was brought to the SPC this week

inviting any submissions.

This concluded the business of the meeting.
---
5

*The next Joint Policing Committee Meeting of the Cappamore Kilmallock*

*Municipal District is to be held on Thursday 18**th* *April 2024 at 2pm in Aras*

*Mainchin Seoighe Area Office, Kilmallock. JPC meetings will now follow the*

*end of each quarter for reporting purposes where possible.*

Signed: \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

**Cathaoirleach**

Date: \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
---
