1

**MINUTES OF PROCEEDINGS AT MEETING OF THE MUNICIPAL DISTRICT OF ADARE-**

**RATHKEALE JPC SUBCOMMITTEE HELD IN ÁRAS SEÁN FINN, NEW LINE ROAD,**

**RATHKEALE, CO. LIMERICK ON THURSDAY, 9TH** **NOVEMBER, 2017 AT 9.00 A.M.**

**PRESENT IN THE CHAIR:**

Councillor R. O’Donoghue, An Cathaoirleach.

**MEMBERS PRESENT:**

Councillors Keary, McMahon, O’Brien, Sheahan and Teskey.

**OFFICIALS IN ATTENDANCE:**

Director, Regional Services (Ms. C. Curley), A/Senior Executive Engineer, Service

Operations West Division (Mr. K. Murphy), Meetings Administrator (Mr. T. O’Callaghan),

Administrative Officer, Rathkeale Office (Ms. K. Butler), Assistant Staff Officer (Ms. E.

Buckley).

Superintendent E. O’Neill, Inspector A. Cullen, Sergeant N. Flood and Garda L. McCarthy.

**1.**

**Christmas in Rathkeale**

At the outset the Cathaoirleach and Members wished Superintendent O’Neill well in his

new role in the District and welcomed him and his colleagues to the Meeting.

Superintendent O’Neill noted that, in relation to Christmas in Rathkeale, he had already

engaged with stakeholders and outlined the Garda commitment and what would be

required of others, to ensure that the period passed safely and in accordance with the

law. He noted that Divisional Units would be used to supplement local garda resources

and that Sergeant Flood would be returning to operate in Rathkeale.

Members stressed the importance of having the proposed CCTV cameras in place by

Christmas and discussed the proposals to place speed ramps in Rathkeale and the Garda

involvement in this process. Members also discussed the economic benefits that accrue

to Rathkeale over the Christmas period, the need to welcome visitors and the potential

to put a team of community officers in place in this regard. Members also noted that

many locals did not shop in Rathkeale over the Christmas period and that business was

being lost as a result. Instances of unlicensed trading, in competition with local rate

payers, were also highlighted. Members noted that, given the duration and numbers of

visitors involved, there were no similar events in Ireland that this could be compared

with and stressed the need for action to be taken to ensure that the events of previous

years were not repeated.

In response to queries from Members, Superintendent O’Neill noted that he would be in

dialogue with the various state agencies, as appropriate, as issues arose. With regard to
---
2

issues that might arise from unsupervised children on the street in Rathkeale, the Gardaí

would engage with the families involved and any instance of neglect would be brought

to the attention of Túsla.

**2.**

**Policing Issues in the District.**

Members expressed concern at the size of the Garda District, under the control of

Superintendent O’Neill, following the amalgamation of the Newcastle West and

Askeaton Districts and the perception that ordinary citizens did not have a personal

connection with the Gardaí and crime was going unreported. Members noted that

crime was becoming transient, in response to lack of Garda resources and, in view of the

presence of Foynes Port and other significant businesses in that area, a request was

made that consideration be given to assigning a District Inspector to the Askeaton area.

Members discussed the prevalence of youths, in their teens and younger, on the streets

in Askeaton at all hours and also the prevalence of drugs in Askeaton and it was noted

that a deputation from Askeaton had met recently with the Gardaí, in this regard. It was

suggested that low crime rates in Askeaton had supported the merger with Newcastle

West but that a percentage of crime went unreported. Members requested an

increased Garda presence on the beat in Askeaton and a focus on illegal drug use there,

and throughout the District.

Members raised the issue of incidents during Halloween and noted that large groups of

youths were being transported into certain locations by their parents and that some

communities had organised street marshals in response.

Superintendent O’Neill acknowledge the issues raised by Members and noted that he

would take the appropriate action in response to same and would revert to the

Askeaton Community Council in relation to their concerns.

Superintendent O’Neill reviewed the crime statistics arising at Halloween which showed

a decrease of 50% in 2017, compared to 2016 and noted that there had been an

increased Garda presence, on street, and checks on the sale of alcohol to youths. He

pointed out that operation Thor continued to operate to detect travelling gangs of

criminals and stressed the importance of the Gardaí maintaining informal contacts with

the communities and the importance of people reporting crime. With regard to

resources, Superintendent O’Neill reassured the Members that he would seek to fill any

gaps that might exist in same in his District.

On the proposal of Councillor Keary, seconded by Councillor Sheahan the following

Motion was agreed by Members.

“That this District calls on the Minister for Justice and Equality to arrange for an

advertising campaign on national television, targeted in particular at the elderly,
---
3

warning of the risks of engaging with rogue traders and builders who pressurise the

customer into paying exorbitant rates for their services”

Superintendent O’Neill noted that his staff could organise an advertisement in this

regard on local radio and pointed out that banks were vigilant of elderly customers

making significant withdrawals.

Members discussed the potential for the Gardaí to have access to electronic tracking

and driver monitoring, used by some insurance companies in conjunction with the

customer, to potentially further reduce the cost of insurance and as a tool for the

Gardaí.

Superintendent O’Neill noted that, under current arrangements, the contract existed

between the insurance company and the customer and there would be Data Protection

issues concerning Garda involvement in same. It was noted that an Oireachtas

Committee was reviewing the issue of insurance.

This concluded the Meeting.

Signed:

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

**Cathaoirleach**

Dated:

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
---
