[Original file](https://www.limerick.ie/sites/default/files/media/documents/2017-06/Agenda%20-%20Municipal%20District%20of%20Adare-Rathkeale%20-%2010th%20December%202015.pdf)

---
*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  

_—_—_—_ Seirbhisi Corpardideacha agus Bainistiocht Athruithe,
Comhairle Cathrach agus Contae Luimnigh,
AEN 7 ba Cé na gCeannaithe.
—==> Luimneach

. .
Limerick Corporate Services and Change Management,

Limerick City and County Council

- E od Merchants Quay,
Limerick

t: +353 (0) 61 407 100
f: +353 (0) 61 415 266

4" December, 2015.

To: The Cathaoirleach and Each Member of the Municipal District of Adare-Rathkeale

A Chomhairleoir, a chara,

You are requested to attend a Meeting of the Municipal District of Adare-Rathkeale to be held in Aras
Sean Finn, New Line Road, Rathkeale, Co. Limerick, on Thursday, 10 December, 2015 at 9.00 a.m. The
business to be transacted is set out on the appended Agenda.

Is mise le meas,

Zp:

Meetings tan, J
AGENDA
1. Minutes

To adopt Minutes of Meeting of the Municipal District of Adare-Rathkeale held on 10"
November, 2015.

2. Travel and Transportation / Environment
Deputation to meet with NRA (now Transport Infrastructure Ireland

To nominate a Member of the Municipal District of Adare-Rathkeale to take part in a deputation
to Transport Infrastructure Ireland (Til) and agree the issues, relevant to the District, to be

raised.

(Report attached)

1 @ customerservices@limerick.ie

Ceanncheathni Chorpardideach, Cé na gCeannaithe, Luimneach @ weew.limerick.ie
Corporate Headquarters, Merchants Quay, Limerick w @LimerickCouncil


---
*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  

ADJOURNED NOTICE OF MOTION
Notice of Motion submitted by Councillor E. O’Brien

3. | will move at the next Meeting for the Council to replace street lighting at the Ferrybridge
Kildimo on the N69 with suitable LED lights, in the interests of safety.

QUESTIONS
Questions submitted by Councillor T. Neville

4. | will ask at the next Meeting for a full update on the taking in charge of Ballyvareen Estate
including, the date of completion of the schedule of works and costs from the Water Services
Department of the Council and, once the schedule of works and costs is complete, the time line
estimated to complete the taking in charge of Ballyvareen Estate.

5. | will ask at the next Meeting for a detailed progress report in relation to the inadequate size and
length of the surface water pipeline at the property known to the Council in Ballinagarde,
Ballyneety.

6. | will ask at the next Meeting if any progress has been made by the Council in costing the

appropriate traffic solution presented by the parents of Shanagolden N.S.
NOTICES OF MOTION

Notices of Motion submitted by Councillor T. Neville

7. | will move at the next Meeting for safety provisions to be installed at Cappagh Cross (Cappagh
Castle).
8. | will move at the next Meeting for flood alleviation measures to be carried out in order to

protect the swimming pool water pumps at Askeaton Pool and Leisure.

Notice of Motion submitted by Councillor E. O'Brien

9. | will move at the next Meeting for an update on any proposals to install traffic route lighting in
the vicinity of the Kilcornan Primary School and entrance to the Ger McDonnell all-weather
playing facility/ Kilcornan Community Centre together with enhanced traffic calming/safety
measures at this location.

10. Correspondence


---
