[Original file](https://www.limerick.ie/sites/default/files/media/documents/2025-01/agenda-meeting-of-the-municipal-district-of-adare-rathkeale-14th-january-2025.pdf)

---
*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  

_—_ Comhairle Cathrach Ceantar Bardasach Ath Dara-Rath Caola,
Comhairie Cathvach egus Contae Luimmnigh,
Se & Contae Luimnigh Aras Stan Forwn.
Limerick Cit coe

=> yY | Réth Cacia,

& County Council Co. Luimnigh.

Adare-Rathkeale Municipal District.

Limerick City and County Council

Aras Sean Finn,

New Line,

Rathkeale.

Co. Limerick.

BRROODE V94 HKLV

& 4353 (0) 69 64047
9" January, 2025. f; +353 (0) 69 63188

To: The Cathaoirleach and Each Member of the Municipal District of Adare-Rathkeale

A Chomhairleoir, a chara,

You are requested to attend a Meeting of the Municipal District of Adare-Rathkeale to be held in
Aras Sean Finn, New Line Road, Rathkeale, Co. Limerick on Tuesday 14" January, 2024 at 9.30
a.m. The business to be transacted is set out on the appended Agenda.

Is mise le meas,

}
Karen 3s

Meetings Administrator.

AGENDA

1. Minutes

To adopt Minutes of the Monthly Meeting of the Municipal District of Adare-Rathkeale held
on 10” December, 2024.

(Copy Enclosed).
2. Declaration of Interest
= ces@limerickie
Ceanncheathri Chorpardideach, Cé na Warrenty Luimneach | www.timerickie
Corporate Headquarters, Merchants Quay, Limerick. @LimerickCouncil

\ 061 - 556 000


---
*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  

4.

Roads, Traffic and Cleansing
District Engineers Report

To update Members on issues of interest in the District.
(Report Enclosed).

General Municipal Allocation (GMA)

To review position in relation to allocations under the General Municipal Allocation 2025.
QUESTIONS
Question submitted by Councillor A. Teskey

| will ask at the next Meeting given the fact that the proposed works to the Adare
Heritage Centre have gone on display on E tenders can the Council confirm if it has
monies sanctioned for the proposed project if so how much is allocated and from what
budget has the allowance been made available from.

Question submitted by Councillor A. Teskey

| will ask at the next Meeting how many planning applications were appealed to An Bord
Pleandla both by the Local Authority and the proposed applicant in 2024. How many of
these were overturned by the Bord and what percentage does this represent overall.

NOTICE OF MOTION

Notice of Motion submitted by Councillor J. O’Donoghue

| will move at the next Meeting that we write to the Department of Housing, Local
Government and Heritage and any other relevant Government Departments to change the
regulations on the newest application forms for Housing Adaption Grants for older people
and disabled people. Most notably the unavailability of a grant to replace a fossil fuel
burner if the current burner is unrepairable.

A.0.B


---
