[Original file](https://www.limerick.ie/sites/default/files/media/documents/2018-09/02%20Minutes%20of%20Joint%20Policing%20Sub%20Committee%20Meeting%20of%20the%20Municipal%20District%20of%20Cappamore-Kilmallock%20held%20on%20Thursday%2019th%20July%2C%202018.pdf)

---
*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  
MINUTES OF PROCEEDINGS AT JOINT POLICING SUB COMMITTEE
MEETING OF THE MUNICIPAL DISTRICT OF CAPPAMORE-
KILMALLOCK HELD IN ARAS MAINCHIN SEOIGHE, MILLMOUNT,
KILMALLOCK, CO. LIMERICK, ON THURSDAY, 19™ JULY, 2018, AT
3.00 P.M.

PRESENT IN THE CHAIR:
Councillor £. Ryan, An Cathaoirleach.
MEMBERS PRESENT:

Councillors Donegan, Gleeson, Mitchell, O'Donnell, Sheehy and Teefy.

OFFICIALS IN ATTENDANCE:

Director Support Services-Finance, Corporate, HR & ICT (Mr S. Coughlan), Meetings
Administrator (Mr. M. Leahy), A/Senior Executive Engineer Cappamore-Kilmallock (Mr. B.
Murphy), Clerical Officer (Mrs. H. O'Neill).

Also in attendance: Superintendent An Garda Siochana Mr. Brian Sugrue, Public Participation
Network (PPN) Nominee Mr. Thomas O’Dwyer.

4. Policing Issues in the District

The Elected Members welcomed Superintendent Sugrue to the meeting, welcomed his
appointment as a permanent Superintendent to the Bruff District, and acknowledged the
work done by previous Acting Superintendents in the District, prior to the permanent
appointment of Superintendent Sugrue.

The Superintendent proceeded to give an update on policing issues within the District and he
outlined some statistics for the Joint Policing Sub Committee for the period since the last JPC
Meeting.

The Superintendent also confirmed that the Chief Superintendent had indicated that
additional resources would be provided to the District in the future to support the ongoing
work by An Garda Siochana in the District.

He also outlined proposals by An Garda Siochana for a Community Policing Initiative in the
District where members of An Garda Siochana would be allocated specific areas in the District
and their brief would be to engage with the local community and develop local community
contacts. He confirmed that work was ongoing in compiling a list of relevant stakeholders and
the formal launch and communication of this initiative was likely to take place in Autumn
2018.


---
*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  
The Members acknowledged the work done by An Garda Siochana in the District and
welcomed the proposed Community Policing Initiative. This initiative made a lot of sense as
it would deepen the contacts between An Garda Siochana and the community and would
ensure that members of An Garda Siochana would have a better understanding of their areas
and the people residing in it.

There was also a discussion about actual Garda numbers in the District and the Members
agreed that additional Garda resources should be provided, given the size of the District.

The Members complimented the efforts of an off-duty Garda in the District who recently
stopped a drunk driver. The Superintendent also clarified recent reports that suggested that
Croom Garda Station was not open and confirmed that the Garda Station in Croom was open
and that Gardai were operating from that station.

e Votes of S ith

Members extended a Vote of Sympathy to the family and friends of Michael O’Keefe,
Glenameade, Pallaskenry on his recent passing and they noted that Mr O’Keefe had formerly
been a Superintendent of the Bruff Garda District.

This concluded the Meeting.

Signed:
Cathaoirleach

Date:


---
