[Original file](https://www.limerick.ie/sites/default/files/media/documents/2017-10/Minutes%20-%20Meeting%20of%20Municipal%20District%20of%20Cappamore-Kilmallock%20-%2021st%20September%202017.pdf)

---
MINUTES OF PROCEEDINGS AT MEETING OF THE MUNICIPAL DISTRICT OF

CAPPAMORE-KILMALLOCK

HELD

IN

ÁRAS

MAINCHÍN

SEOIGHE,

MILLMOUNT,

KILMALLOCK,

CO.

LIMERICK,

ON

THURSDAY,

21ST

SEPTEMBER, 2017, AT 3.30 P.M.

PRESENT IN THE CHAIR: Councillor G. Mitchell, An Cathaoirleach.

MEMBERS PRESENT:

Councillors Donegan, O’Donnell, Ryan, Sheehy, Teefy.

An apology for his inability to attend the Meeting was received from Councillor Gleeson.

OFFICIALS IN ATTENDANCE:

A/Director, Support Services – Finance, Corporate, Human Resources and ICT (Mr. S.

Coughlan), A/Senior Executive Engineer, Cappamore-Kilmallock (Mr. B. Murphy), Executive

Engineer,

Cappamore-Kilmallock

(Mr.

J.

Sheehan),

A/Senior

Executive

Planner,

Forward/Strategic Planning, Economic Development Directorate (Ms. K. Burke), Public Interest

Development Officer, Economic Development (Ms. J. Robinson), Meetings Administrator (Ms.

T. Knox).

**Votes of Sympathy**

At the outset, a vote of sympathy was extended to the following and a minute’s silence

was observed as a mark of respect:

• Councillor Noel Gleeson on the death of his niece, Helen Fahy, Dromsally, Cappamore.

• Paddy Kelly, Newtown, Caherconlish, on the death of his brother, Gerard Kelly.

With the Permission of the Cathaoirleach, it was agreed to take Item 4 as the first item:

4.

Review of Schedule of Works 2017

The A/Head of Finance stated that the total amount invested in the delivery of direct

local services in the Municipal District of Cappamore-Kilmallock for the year 2017 was €7.5

million and covered the following services:

• Local and Regional Roads.

• Housing, including Disabled Persons’ Grants and Private Housing Grants.

• Parks and Open Spaces.

• Library.

• Fire Service.

• Community Supports.
---
2

The A/Senior Executive Engineer and Executive Engineer delivered a PowerPoint

presentation which included works carried out in the District in 2017 in relation to Local and

Regional Roads, Surface Dressing and Reconstruction, Community and Local Improvement

Schemes, and also details of works funded through the General Municipal Allocation (GMA).

Information was also provided in relation to Town and Village Renewal, Low Cost Safety

Schemes, Drainage Works and Pedestrian Crossings.

Both Engineers reviewed works carried out in relation to Housing Maintenance and

gave an overview of Unfinished Housing Estates and Disabled Persons and Private House

Grants.

The Members were appraised of works undertaken under the heading of General

Maintenance and which included work done on road marking and lining, signage, footpaths.

Also noted were upgrades made to public lighting and repairs to crash barriers.

Other items covered in the presentation included the following:

• Severe Weather and Restoration Improvement Funding (Cappamore Village).

• Parks, Pitches and Open Spaces.

• Community – support to Lough Gur Development Association.

• Kilmallock/Cappamore Libraries.

• Artists’ Studios at Cappamore.

• Mobile Library Service.

• Kilmallock/Cappamore Fire Stations.

• Training provided to staff in the District.

• Capital Works.

The A/Head of Finance concluded by stating that the additional funds generated by the

10% increase in Local Property Tax had enhanced local services in the following areas:

• Local and Regional Roads

 Road Safety Markings.

 Public Lighting Upgrade, Hospital.

 Surface Dressing Works.

•

Weed Spraying Budget restored.

•

Support to Lough Gur Development Association - €30,000.

•

Library.

•

Fire Services.

•

Promotion of Limerick as a tourist destination.

It was agreed to circulate copy of presentation to the Members.
---
3

Members thanked staff for the comprehensive presentation and acknowledged the

quantity and quality of work carried out in what they said was an extremely busy year. They

commended all staff in the District and asked for their appreciation to be relayed to all staff.

1.

Adoption of Minutes

Circulated, copy of draft Minutes of Meeting of the Municipal District of Cappamore-

Kilmallock held on 20th July, 2017.

Proposed by Councillor Ryan;

Seconded by Councillor Teefy;

And Resolved:

“That, the draft Minutes, as circulated, be taken as read and adopted and signed.”

2.

Economic Development Directorate

(a)

Deferral of Notice to make a New Local Area Plan for Kilfinane –

Proposal to Extend the Life of the Kilfinane Local Area Plan 2012-2018

Circulated, Report of the Director of Service, Economic Development dated 22nd August,

2017, enclosing a copy of the Chief Executive’s Report dated 22nd August, 2017, submitted to

the Elected Members of the District in accordance with Sections 19(1)(d) and 19(1)(e) of the

Planning and Development Act 2000 (as amended) in relation to the deferral of making a new

Kilfinane Local Area Plan and setting out the Chief Executives views in relation to same.

The A/Senior Executive Planner, Economic Development, addressed the Meeting on this

item and highlighted the following:

•

The Kilfinane Local Area Plan 2012-2018 was consistent with the objectives and core

strategy of the Limerick County Development Plan 2010-2016 (as extended).

•

The objectives of the Kilfinane Local Area Plan had not been substantially secured.

•

The sending and publishing of notices to review the existing Local Area Plan could be

deferred for a period of 5 years.

Proposed by Councillor Sheehy;

Seconded by Councillor Ryan;

And Resolved:

"That, having considered the Chief Executive's Report dated 22nd August, 2017, the

Municipal District of Cappamore-Kilmallock resolves to defer the sending of a notice under

Section 20(3)(a)(i) of the Planning and Development Act 2000 (as amended) and defer the

publishing of a notice under Section 20(3)(a)(ii) of the Planning and Development Act 2000 (as

amended) and to extend the life of the Kilfinane Local Area Plan 2012-2018 by a further 5 years

from 21st September, 2017, in accordance with the provisions of Section 19 of the Planning and

Development Act 2000 (as amended).”
---
4

(b)

Limerick Heritage Plan 2017-2030

Circulated, Limerick Heritage Plan 2017-2030.

The A/Senior Executive Planner, Economic Development, gave an overview of the

Limerick Heritage Plan and noted the benefit of having the Plan in place to support the

drawdown of any related funding that might becomeavailable. She added that there had been

a large number of contributions from the public to the Plan.

Members noted the Plan.

(c)

Town Engage Kilmallock

Circulated, report of the Senior Architect dated August 2017.

The Public Interest Development (PID) Officer delivered a PowerPoint presentation to

the Members on the Kilmallock Town Engage Initiative. She commenced by providing

information in relation to the Public Interest Development Office, which included:

•

An overview of the purpose of the Office which was to stimulate and strengthen

Limerick's historic towns and city centre through built environment development

projects which were in the public interest.

•

The work of the Office was dedicated to place-making, re-use and revitalisation through

the activation of social, environmental and economic drivers across Limerick.

•

The Office had created an ecosystem for collaboration and engagement through a co-

design process called 'Town Engage.’

It was noted that funding opportunities were available through the following:

•

Creative Ireland.

•

Town and Village Renewal.

•

Leader Funding.

•

EU.

The PID Officer explained to the Members what was meant by Community Participation

and Co-Design Processes and provided details on the 'Living Limerick - City Engage' and 'Living

Limerick - City Riverway Engage' Initiatives.

In relation to the Town Engage-Kilmallock - Threshold Project, the following was noted:

**Threshold Project**

•

The PID Office to use 'Town Engage' approach in Kilmallock to assist the town with

developing an inclusive vision for a Public Realm Project in the town, namely the town

threshold.
---
5

•

Timeline 9th October - 13th October.

•

Purpose - to welcome people to the town, slow down traffic, safer environment for

pedestrians and cyclists and development of a town identity.

**Calendar of Events**

•

Community learning day and field tours.

•

Community Auditing.

•

Open source mapping sessions.

•

Design Workshops.

•

Open Critique.

In response to query from the Members, it was agreed to circulate report on

applications put forward as part of the 2017 Town and Village Renewal Scheme for the District

to also include details of Arts applications.

The Members thanked the PID Officer for her presentation and said they very much

looked forward to working on the project with relevant stakeholders in the Community.

(d)

Development Fund Allocations

The A/Senior Executive Engineer advised that funding of €47,000 was available under

the Development Fund Allocations 2017 for the District.

On the proposal of Councillor Ryan, seconded by Councillor Teefy, it was agreed that

allocations from the Development Fund for the Municipal District would be allocated as

follows:

• Glenfield Junction, Kilmallock - €15,000 (Feasibility Study required on optimum solution

for this busy junction).

• Hospital Footpaths and Lighting - €17,000 (estimated cost €69,000 – balance to be

funded from general maintenance and GMA funding for 2018).

• Bruff Playground - €15,000.

3.

Local Link Transport

The Cathaoirleach welcomed Ms. Anne Gaughan, Manager of Local Link Limerick, to the

Meeting who gave a presentation to the Members.

She informed the Members that Local Link was established in 2002 as a Company

‘limited by guarantee’ trading as Rural Bus, which was re-branded as Local Link Limerick in

2015. It was a non-profit company with charitable status and funded by the Department of

Transport, Tourism and Sport. Its mission was to provide a quality, accessible and sustainable

level of rural public transport complementing, where possible, existing transport services, thus

allowing everyone in the community to have access to social, economic and other services.
---
6

She stated that the Board was made up of the following organisations:

· West Limerick Independent Living.

· West Limerick Resources.

· Ballyhoura Development.

· Limerick Youth Service.

· General Community.

She explained to the Members that Local Link Limerick did not own buses, instead it

sub-contracted to local operators. There were 46 transport operators within Limerick, Cork

and Clare on the Local Link Limerick e-tenders panel, with 26 of those contracted to the NTA

and Local Link Limerick. 168 buses were on the Integrated Transport Management System,

along with 201 drivers, who were also Garda Vetted.

The following were the Company’s transport services:

· 240 transport services from rural areas into towns/villages in Limerick and North Cork.

· 2 Combination Services – 125 transport services.

· 30 Town Routes – 60 transport services.

· 17 Day Care Centre Services – 34 transport services.

· 6 Disability Group Services – 12 transport services.

· 1 After-School Service – 5 transport services.

· Community Funding.

· Youth.

· Leader Companies.

· Passenger Ground Transportation Service.

She informed the Members that, to date, the Company had 48,518 passenger trips,

which was an increase of 12,813 compared to the same time in 2016. 55% of all passengers in

2016 had free travel passes.

She explained to the Members that there would be ongoing research to identify the

needs of passengers and the possibilities of connecting with other public services.

Consultation with community groups, disability groups and agencies would be done in the

future and a marketing campaign of Local Link Limerick throughout County Limerick and North

Cork.

Members thanked Ms. Gaughan for her comprehensive presentation and commended

the essential and valuable work being done by Local Link. They complimented Local Link on

their rebranding which they said was bright and creative. Councillor Donegan stated that he

would be proposing that this presentation would be given to the members of the Travel and

Transportation Strategic Policy Committee. The Members supported this proposal.

4.

Review of Schedule of Works 2017

It was noted that this item had been dealt with earlier in the Meeting.
---
7

5.

Support Services Directorate

Geographical Sub-Committee of Joint Policing Committee

The Meetings Administrator outlined proposals included in the Joint Policing

Committee Strategic Plan 2016-2021 for the establishment of Geographical Sub Committees of

the Joint Policing Committee and stated that the Members were aware of the informal

arrangements that were already in place in the Districts where the local Superintendent

attended at District Meetings on a quarterly basis to discuss policing issues. She added that

this arrangement would continue but on a more formal basis. It was also noted that the

relevant member of the Public Participation Network for the District would be invited to attend

this Meeting.

QUESTIONS

6.

Question submitted by Councillor G. Mitchell

***I will ask at the next Meeting what is the present update on taking-in-charge of Cluain Foinse***

***Estate in Hospital by Limerick City and County Council.***

**REPLY:**

A contractor has been appointed to carry out remedial works to the estate.

Works will consist of completing roads, footpaths, sewer and water systems.

Public lighting has been upgraded and connected.

7.

Question submitted by Councillor G. Mitchell

***I will ask at the next Meeting, with regard to the lights that are being presently upgraded in***

***Hospital, when will the works be fully completed; can new lights be installed at the bridge***

***outside the funeral parlour and on the approach roads; has a survey been carried out and, if***

***so, what are the details.***

**REPLY:**

The second phase of upgrading existing public lighting will commence shortly.

The second phase consists of upgrading public lighting along the northern and

southern extremities of Hospital village. This will include the bridge outside the

funeral parlour and the approach roads. Additionally, public lighting

improvements along the Bruff, Knockainey and Emly Roads will be included in

phase 2.

8.

Question submitted by Councillor M. Donegan

***I will ask at the next Meeting for an update on the current roadworks in Elton.***

**REPLY:**

***(Reply received from Triona Heffernan, Regional Manager of Iarnród Éireann)***

Irish Rail is installing precast concrete units and a traffic barrier system on both

approaches to railway bridge OBC283 at Elton, which requires extensive

excavations on both approaches. This work is contracted to John Cradock Ltd.,

who commenced on site on Tuesday, 5th September, and the approximate

duration for the works is 4 to 6 weeks. This work is safety-critical for both public

road users and Irish Rail.
---
8

9.

Question submitted by Councillor M. Donegan

***I will ask at the next Meeting for an update on the plan for a roundabout at the Church in***

***Kilmallock.***

**REPLY:**

The Council is in the process of appointing a design consultant to carry out a

feasibility report on Glenfield Junction.

NOTICES OF MOTION

10.

Notice of Motion submitted by Councillor L.M. Sheehy

***I will move at the next Meeting that Limerick City and County Council build a footpath to join***

***the village of Ardpatrick to the local National School.***

In proposing the Motion, Councillor Sheehy stressed the urgent need for a footpath to

be constructed to join the village of Ardpatrick to the local National School.

The Motion was seconded by Councillor Donegan and agreed.

The Executive Engineer agreed to prepare a costing on the proposed work.

11.

Notice of Motion submitted by Councillor G. Mitchell

***I will move at the next Meeting that works to upgrade Hospital Sewerage Plant be prioritised***

***as a matter of urgency as it is not fit for purpose to comply with modern day regulations and,***

***consequently, Hospital remains static and cannot expand into the future.***

In proposing the Motion, Councillor Mitchell highlighted the urgent need for works to

be carried out to the Sewerage Plant in Hospital which would help the village to expand and

develop into the future. He stated that he was disappointed with the replies received to date

from Irish Water.

The Motion was seconded by Councillor O' Donnell and agreed.

**12.**

**Correspondence**

The Correspondence, as circulated, was noted by Members.

It was agreed that contact would be made with the District Administrator, Nenagh

Municipal Council, to ascertain further detail in relation to agenda for proposed Joint Meeting.
---
9

**Other Matters Raised:**

At the conclusion of the Meeting, the following issues were raised with the consent of

the Cathaoirleach:

• **Deputation**

On the proposal of Councillor Donegan, seconded by Councillor Ryan, it was agreed that Bruree

Community Council would be invited to the next Meeting.

• **Vote of Congratulations**

Members congratulated the Limerick Under 21 hurling team on their All-Ireland Victory and

commended the work of all those involved with the team.

• **Old Pallas Post Office**

Councillor Teefy raised the issue of 'Customer Notice' regarding Old Pallas Post Office. It was

noted that An Post was considering the future service provision needs at Old Pallas which

could include the closure of the Post Office. The following points were made by the Members

at the Meeting in support of retaining the Post Office in Old Pallas:

•

The Post office formed part of a shared service which included a Filling Station, Shop, Fuel

Business, employing a large number of staff.

•

It covered a large geographical area.

•

It provided an essential and vital service to the public.

•

Local Post Offices were an essential component of the cluster of businesses needed in any

small town or village.

•

They were informal Community Centres in local communities.

The Members stressed that, in general, the Post Office was a core component of the

viability of small towns and villages and that its removal would have a negative knock-on effect

for other services. They also stressed that future expansion of services provided by the Post

Office Network would be essential for their long term viability. The Members expressed their

concerns regarding the possible closure of Old Pallas Post Office and asked for their views to be

relayed to An Post, for consideration as part of the consultation process.

• **Municipal Receptions**

It was agreed that each Member would forward details of individuals/groups to be

honoured at a Municipal Reception to the Meetings Administrator in advance of the next

Meeting. It was further agreed that all those proposed and subsequently agreed would be

honoured at a ceremony to be held after the November Meeting of the District at the offices in

Kilmallock.
---
10

• **Policy on Speed Ramps**

The Members asked if the Council had a policy on the provision of Speed Ramps. It was

agreed to check with the Physical Development Directorate.

This concluded the Meeting.

Signed:

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

Cathaoirleach

Dated:

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
---
