[Original file](https://beta.limerick.ie/sites/default/files/media/documents/2017-04/minutes_of_meeting_held_15th_april_2016.pdf)

---
**MINUTES OF PROCEEDINGS AT MEETING OF JOINT POLICING COMMITTEE HELD IN**

**THE EXHIBITION AREA, MERCHANT’S QUAY, LIMERICK, ON FRIDAY, 15TH** **APRIL,**

**2016 AT 2.30 P.M.**

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**PRESENT**

Councillors Keller, Ó Ceallaigh, Keary, Mitchell, J. Sheahan, Lynch, K. Sheahan, O’Donoghue, Ryan

and O’Brien

Chief Superintendent David Sheahan and Superintendent Smart

Pat Dowling, Deputy Chief Executive, Christy O’Connor, Senior Executive Officer (Corporate),

Carmel Kirby, Senior Executive Officer (Regeneration) and Liz Creamer, Staff Officer (Corporate)

Apologies for their inability to attend the meeting had been received from Councillor Jerry O’Dea

and Deputy Niall Collins, T.D.

**1.Confirmation of Minutes of Joint Policing Committee Meeting held on 23rd** **March, 2015**

Circulated, copy of minutes of Joint Policing Committee Meeting held on 23rd March, 2015.

On the proposal of Councillor Mitchell, seconded by Cmhlr. Ó Ceallaigh, the minutes of Joint

Policing Committee Meeting held on 23rd March, 2015 were confirmed.

**2.Update on filling of Sectoral Vacancies on Joint Policing Committee**

The Senior Executive Officer, Corporate Services, pointed out that the Joint Policing Committee

was statutorily obliged to meet four times per year. He added that the Sectoral Representatives

for the Joint Policing Committee had not been appointed yet. They would be selected using the

PPN election process which it was hoped would be completed by July. He stated that the question

of Sub Committees had been previously discussed at the meeting of the Committee held on 23rd

March, 2015, but that this area would need to be re-examined following the appointment of the

Sectoral Nominees to the Committee. In this regard, it was proposed that the practise, whereby

the local Area Superintendent would meet on a quarterly basis with the Members of the Municipal

District to discuss operational issues, would continue, as heretofore, and that a similar process

would be put in place for the Metropolitan District with Members for that District meeting with

the appropriate Superintendent on a quarterly basis. It was pointed out that the Garda area in

this regard was divided under two Superintendents and that the Members could attend the

Briefings for their appropriate areas or both if they wished.
---
**3.Joint Policing Committee Sub Committee**

This item was deferred pending the appointment of the Sectoral Representatives.

**4.Receive Presentation from Chief Superintendent Sheahan on Crime Statistics**

Chief Superintendent Sheahan gave a powerpoint presentation outlining the crime and traffic

statistics for the Limerick Division for 2014 and 2015. These were summarised as follows :

2014

2015

Property Crime

5272

5156

Crimes against the Person

753

981

All Criminal Damage

1490

1646

All Public Order Offences

1435

1256

Drug Offences

634

686

Weapons Offences

184

140

Aggravated Burglary

12

6

Non Aggravated Burglary

1042

1069

Theft/Unauthorised Taking of Vehicle

462

399

Theft from Vehicle

970

1029

Theft from Shop

1184

1335

Theft of other Property

980

735

Murder

0

3

Murder Threat

19

36

Assaults causing Harm

140

159

Minor Assault

420

537

Arson

97

112

Criminal Damage (not arson)

1393

1534

Public Order Offences

1162

1025

Drunkenness Offences

273

231

Possession of Drugs for Sale or Supply

186

167

Possession of Drugs for Personal Use

426

503

Possession of Offensive Weapons (not

firearms)

144

106

Traffic Collision Fatal

11

4

Traffic Collision Serious Injury

19

17

Driving While Intoxicated

298

330

Members thanked the Chief Superintendent for his presentation.

Members requested a similar presentation in about six months time. It was also requested that

the presentation be broken down per Municipal District / Metropolitan District Area, if possible.

Queries were raised on the position regarding crimes relating to drugs and drug testing for drivers

and these were responded to by the Chief Superintendent.
---
Further queries were raised regarding the use of mobile phones while driving and the Chief

Superintendent indicated that An Garda Siochana had a recent publicity campaign in relation to

mobile phone usage while driving and added that this would be repeated during the year.

Concerns were expressed regarding the increase in crime and thefts in rural areas and the need

for additional resources to be allocated to cover these areas. Reference was made to issues of

overcrowding in the Garda Station in Newcastle West and Members requested that consideration

be given to re-opening Croom Garda Station. Queries were also raised in relation to the use of

Garda Reserves and new recruits in the District and reference was made to issues in the Askeaton

area which were also a cause for concern.

The Chief Superintendent, in reply, outlined the actions being taken by An Garda Siochana to deal

with rural crime and referred to the crime statistics which were an important tool in the

development of an adequate response to rural crimes and the issues arising from same. He also

pointed out that there were 43 Garda Reserves in the city and county, each of whom were very

committed to their role. In response to a query regarding the filling of the position of

Superintendent in Bruff, he pointed out that the appointment in this case was made by the

Commissioner and interviews were ongoing at the present time.

Chief Superintendent Sheahan referred to the Purple Flag where the number of assaults at night

were monitored in a particular area. He pointed out that the Gardai work with the Vintners and

others in the area to identify problem locations and ensure appropriate resources are put in place.

He stressed the importance of community policing, text and community alert. A meeting was held

with the I.F.A. in Adare in November 2015 where problems with criminality in certain areas were

raised.

Concerns were expressed regarding underage gangs of youths around the city in the evenings

between 6.00 p.m. – 7.00 p.m. and between 9.00 p.m. – 10.00 p.m. which was very intimidating to

people frequenting the city. Greater garda visability and presence was required in these areas.

**5.DISCUSS JOINT POLICING COMMITTEE ANNUAL WORK PLAN**

**6.DISCUSS JOINT POLICING COMMITTEE SIX YEAR STRATEGY**

The Senior Executive Officer, Corporate Services, gave presentation on Joint Policing Committee

Annual Work Plan and Joint Policing Committee Six Year Strategy. Work was ongoing on the

development of an outline for the Plan and strategic objectives/key actions etc. An update on the

process would be brought back to the Members at the next meeting.

He pointed out that the six year Strategic Plan should be linked to the relevant objectives in the

Local Economic Community Plan (LECP). The Annual Work Plan would also be linked to the LECP

and must include objectives from the Garda Annual Policing Plan. The JPC plans should contain a

limited number of strategic objectives to facilitate monitoring and review and focus on areas
---
where co-operative and collaborative actions can add value to the existing work of the relevant

stakeholders.

**NOTICE OF MOTION**

Submitted the following Notice of Motion from Councillor Liam Galvin which was referred from

the Municipal District of Newcastle West :

‘I will move at the next Meeting that the Superintendent / Chief Superintendent of An Garda

Síochana be asked to attend the next Meeting to discuss and explain the use of the Go Safe vans in

towns and villages’.

At the Meeting the location of Go Safe vans was discussed. Members were of the opinion that

some locations were not accident black spots and asked for the matter and, in particular, the

location of such vans, to be referred to the Joint Policing Committee for further discussion.

The Chief Superintendent pointed out that there are a number of strategies in place to reduce

speed and save lives. Go Safe vans were based in areas where a significant number of collisions

had occurred. Every accident site is mapped and critical locations identified where vans are put in.

Since this intervention the number of accidents had reduced significantly.

Members welcomed the use of the Go Safe van at Rourke’s Cross but said the location of the van

in Banogue was not suitable as it should be located before entering the village thereby slowing

down traffic through the village. Reference was also made to the Go Safe van in Galbally which

should be located in the village, not outside the village.

In reply, the Chief Superintendent stated that all locations where Go Safe vans were parked, are

reviewed on a yearly basis. Locating such vans had to comply with certain criteria to satisfy health

and safety issues. He agreed to look at the location of the Go Safe vans in Banogue and Galbally.

**7.NOTICE OF MOTION**

Submitted the following Notice of Motion from Councillor Liam Galvin which was referred from

the full Council :

‘I will move at the next meeting that Limerick City and County Council would promote “The Buddy

Scheme” whereby An Garda Síochána vet students who want to participate in caring for an elderly

person(s); I would also move that this Council would write to An Garda Síochána, parents, School

Principals, Community Alert Groups, Active Retired Group and Youth Clubs to seek their support to

this Scheme’.
---
The Chief Superintendent stated that new legislation was due out in relation to this Scheme and

said this item should be deferred and looked at by a Sub Committee. He added that no such

Scheme was presently available in Ireland.

**8.ANY OTHER BUSINESS**

A query was raised regarding the greater roll out of CCTV to combat crime. In reply, the Chief

Superintendent stated that a lot of work needed to be done prior to considering CCTV in more

areas. Consideration also had to be given to data control, monitoring, where to locate the CCTV

and also where it would be monitored from. The CCTV Advisory Committee had published

procedures and a Project Team was in place. Community based CCTV would be the best way

forward but can not be done on a trial basis, either a decision was made to install or not to install.

A holistic approach needed to be taken if CCTV is installed and the city and county should be

looked at together instead of each area being looked at separately. Funding was also a

consideration. The benefits and pitfalls of installing CCTV needed to be looked at and he

recommended that the matter be considered by a Sub Committee who would come back with

proposals.

**9.DATE OF NEXT MEETING**

The Senior Executive Officer, Corporate Services, to revert to Members with date for next

meeting.

**Signed : \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_**

**CHAIRPERSON**

**DATE : \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_**
---
