[Original file](https://beta.limerick.ie/sites/default/files/media/documents/2017-04/agenda_-_monthly_meeting_of_the_municipal_district_of_adare-rathkeale_-_13th_september_2016.pdf)

---
*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  
al Seirbhisi Corpardideacha agus Bainistiocht Athruithe,
Comhairle Cathrach agus Contae Luimnigh,

ANS ‘“ Cé na gCeannaithe,
—=>= Luimneach
Limerick Corporate Services and Change Management,
Limerick City and County Council,

CITY & COUNTY Merchants Quay,
COUNCIL Limerick

th t: +353 (0) 61 407 100
8” September, 2016. f: +353 (0) 61 415 266

To: The Cathaoirleach and Each Member of the Municipal District of Adare-Rathkeal

A Chomhairleoir, a chara,

You are requested to attend a Meeting of the Municipal District of Adare-Rathkeale to be held in Aras

Sean Finn, New Line Road, Rathkeale, Co. Limerick, on Tuesday, 13" September, 2016 at 9.00 a.m. The

business to be transacted is set out on the appended Agenda.

Is mise le meas,

Daa

San Kei Get
Meetings Administrator.

AGENDA

1. Minutes
To adopt Minutes of the following Meetings:

(a) Meeting of the Municipal District of Adare-Rathkeale held on 12" july, 2016.
(b) Special Meeting of the Municipal District of Adare-Rathkeale held on 21" July, 2016.

(Copies Enclosed)
2. rvic rations — Planning & Environmental Services
(a) Taking in Charge of Estates - Declaration of Roads to be Public Roads.

To consider the taking in charge of the following housing estate in accordance with Section 180
of the Planning and Development Acts 2000-2015 and Section 11 of the Roads Act 1993:-

e Cois Sruthain, Croom
(Report Enclosed)

1 @ customerservices@limerick.ie

Ceanncheathrui Chorpardideach, Cé na gCeannaithe, Luimneach @ vevew.himerick.te
Corporate Headquarters, Merchants Quay, Limerick Ww @LimerickCouncil


---
*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  
(b) To receive update on the Taking-In-Charge of Ballyvareen Estate.

(c) To note update on the Taking-In-Charge of An Curran Estate, Pallaskenry.
(Copy Enclosed)

Physical Development Directorate

Pilot Pr r the Introduction of 30 km/hr ial d Limits in Five Housing Estates

To consider Pilot Project for the introduction of 30km/hr Special Speed Limits in five housing

estates in the District.
(Report Enclosed)

An Garda Siochana

To discuss policing issues with An Garda Siochana. (Item to be taken at 9.30)

Treatment Plant in n

To note update on the provision of a new sewerage treatment plan in Askeaton.
(Copy Enclosed)

Flooding Issues

To receive update on proposals to address the flooding issues in Foynes, Askeaton and
Ballysteen.

QUESTIONS
Question submitted by Councillor R. O'Donoghue

I will ask at the next Meeting for a directive from Roads Engineers in relation to school buses
using 3-ton roads around the District. At present school buses are restricted and are forced to
divert to use alternative (sub-standard) routes to collect and drop-off school children.

Question submitted by Councillor A. Teskey

| will ask at the next Meeting to know what is the delay and what time scale is there in relation to
the old Anderson Factory being made available for use for the Rathkeale Butterfly Club.


---
*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  
10.

11.

12.

13.

NOTICES OF MOTION

Notice of Motion submitted by Councillor R. O'Donooghue

| will move at the next Meeting that the Council urgently and critically assess the roads around
the District, specifically the bus routes, so that school-going families are assured of safety as they

travel the public roads.

Notices of Motion submitted by Councillor E. O'Brien ee

| will move at the next Meeting for the Council to commit to funding the maintenance of Adare
Village Park from general expenditure forthwith.

I will move at the next Meeting that the Council will extend insurance cover and indemnity to
public slipways in either public or private ownership on the Shannon estuary and in the Adare-
Rathkeale District.

Notice of Motion submitted by Councillor A. Teskey

| will move at the next Meeting for the October Meeting of this District to be brought forward to
the 4" of the month.

Correspondence


---
