[Original file](https://www.limerick.ie/sites/default/files/media/documents/2018-07/02%20Minutes%20Joint%20Policing%20Meeting%20Municipal%20District%20Cappamore-Kilmallock%2029thMar2018.pdf)

---
MINUTES OF PROCEEDINGS AT JOINT POLICING SUB COMMITTEE

MEETING

OF

THE

MUNICIPAL

DISTRICT

OF

CAPPAMORE-

KILMALLOCK HELD IN ÁRAS MAINCHÍN SEOIGHE, MILLMOUNT,

KILMALLOCK, CO. LIMERICK, ON THURSDAY, 29TH MARCH, 2018, AT

3.00 P.M.

PRESENT IN THE CHAIR:

Councillor G. Mitchell, An Cathaoirleach.

MEMBERS PRESENT:

Councillors Donegan, Gleeson, Ryan, Sheehy and Teefy.

An apology for his inability to attend was received from Councillor O’Donnell.

OFFICIALS IN ATTENDANCE:

Director Support Services-Finance, Corporate, HR & ICT (Mr S. Coughlan), A/Senior Executive

Engineer Cappamore-Kilmallock (Mr. B. Murphy), Meetings Administrator (Mr. M. Leahy).

Also in attendance: Acting Superintendent An Garda Siochana Mr. Dermot O’Connor, Public

Participation Network (PPN) Nominee Mr. Thomas O’Dwyer.

Councillor Mitchell noted that this was the first Meeting of the Cappamore-Kilmallock

Municipal District Joint Policing Sub-Committee and welcomed everyone in attendance.

1.

Policing Issues in the District

The Acting Superintendent gave an update on policing issues within the District and he

outlined some statistics for the Joint Policing Sub Committee for the period 1st January to 29th

March 2018:

 47 recorded burglaries which was an increase of 21 during the same period in 2017;

 The majority of burglaries (31) occurred at private homes while 16 happened at

commercial premises;

 1 assault recorded compared with 3 during the same period in 2017;

 9 cases of criminal damage compared with 16 during the same period in 2017;

 9 public order offences compared with 12 during the same period in 2017;

 47 traffic collisions compared with 53 during the same period in 2017;

The Acting Superintendent also confirmed that additional resources had been deployed and

targeted patrols are being carried out across the District as part of Operation Portable which

was a Garda operation to address the increase in burglary crimes this year. Because of
---
2

Operation Portable, the Gardaí had six separate individuals who were arrested and

prosecuted in relation to burglary offences and they were actively seeking to question several

others as well.

The Members acknowledged the work done by An Garda Siochana in the District and

welcomed the update on policing within the District. They expressed concern about criminals

who were very mobile and who travelled into areas to commit burglaries and they welcomed

the details about Operation Portable which was being deployed by An Garda Siochana to

address the issue of burglaries in the District.

There was also a discussion about actual Garda numbers in the District, the number of

vehicles marked and unmarked that were deployed and the how the Garda roster system

operated. The Members agreed that additional Garda resources should be provided, given

that the District size was equivalent to the size of County Louth, and noted that the recent

introduction of CCTV in the County would be an added resource to crime prevention

measures.

The Members expressed their congratulations to former Chief Superintendent Dave Sheahan

on his appointment to Assistant Commissioner. The Members also expressed their frustration

at the delay in appointing a full-time Superintendent to the District and while they

complimented the Acting Superintendent on his presentation and his work overall within the

District, they stressed the importance of having a Superintendent permanently appointed in

the District as soon as possible.

There was a query raised in relation to the appointment of a dedicated Community Garda to

Kilmallock Town. The Acting Superintendent outlined the Community Policing plans in the

District, which included a Text Alert scheme for households, a proposed new Business Text

scheme, as well as a Garda Schools Programme.

He welcomed the fact that the community in Kilmallock had engaged with An Garda Siochana

and explained that every member of An Garda Siochana does a certain amount of community

policing support duties in their role with An Garda Siochana. He explained that there was a

resourcing issue to be considered in deploying a dedicated Community Garda in Kilmallock

but that the issue would be kept under review in the context of any possible additional Garda

resources coming into the District in the future.

This concluded the Meeting.

Signed:

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

Cathaoirleach

Date:

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
---
