*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  
ae Seirbhisi Corparéideacha agus Bainistiocht Athruithe,
Comhairle Cathrach agus Contae Luimnigh,

NNT > Cé na gCeannaithe,
— Luimneach

. .
Limerick Corporate Services and Change Management,
CITY & COUNTY Limerick City and County Council,
Merchants Quay,
COUNCIL pias

t: +353 (0) 61 407 100
f: +353 (0) 61 415 266

22" January, 2016.

To: The Cathaoirleach and Each Member of the Municipal District of Newcastle West

A Chomhairleoir, a chara,

You are requested to attend a Meeting of the Municipal District of Newcastle West to be held at Aras
William Smith OBrien, Newcastle West, Co. Limerick, on Wednesday, 27"" January 2016 at 10.00
a.m. The business to be transacted is set out on the appended Agenda.

is mise le meas,

Tina Knox,
Meetings Administrator.

AGENDA

1. Minutes
To adopt Minutes of the Meeting of Municipal District of Newcastle West held on 2nd

December, 2015.
(Copy Enclosed)

2. Update on Policing in the District

Superintendent (Mr. T. O'Connor), Newcastle West, to give an update on policing for the
District.

3. Fixing of Date

To consider fixing date for February Meeting.

@ customerserviceselimerick.ie
Ceanncheathru Chorpardideach, Cé na gCeannaithe, Luimneach @ www limerick ie
Corporate Headquarters, Merchants Quay, Limerick w @LimerickCouncil

---
*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  
10.

11.

12.

Economic Development and Planning
Taking in Charge of Estates — Declaration of Roads to be Public Roads

To consider the taking-in-charge of Market Court, Newcastle West, in accordance with
Section 180 of the Planning and Development Acts 2000 -2015 and Section 11 of the Roads

Act 1993.
(Report Enclosed)

QUESTIONS
Questions submitted by Councillor J. Scanian

| will ask at the next Meeting when trees can be removed or maintained along the Lake Road
between The Lake Bridge and Tooreenagreana as they are considered a safety hazard.

1 will ask at the next Meeting when works will be carried out on both subsiding pedestrian
crossings along Upper Maiden Street, Newcastle West.

| will ask at the next Meeting what was the actual Budget and final spend on Cemeteries
Maintenance in the Municipal District for each of the past 3 financial year ends, and also
what is the proposed Budget for 2016.

Question submitted by Councillor M. Collins

| will ask at the next Meeting if the recently laid road surface at Killarney Pole, Newcastle
West as part of Barnagh Phase 2 realignment scheme be checked for safety reasons.

Questions submitted by Councillor L. Galvin

| will ask at the next Meeting if a grate can be installed at the new crossing at Ger Ryan’s
house, Ballaugh, Abbeyfeale to prevent the water flowing along the road into the neighbour's

property.

| will ask at the next Meeting for an update on the purchase of a new graveyard in
Abbeyfeale.

| will ask at the next Meeting for an update on the footpath from Abbeyfeale United Soccer
Grounds to the Railway Bar, Abbeyfeale.

NOTICES OF MOTION

Notices of Motion submitted by Councillor J. Scanlan

| will move at the next Meeting that immediate safety measures be implemented to ensure
that adequate sight lines be provided for all traffic exiting the Woodfield Estates on to the

---
*<small>Scanned page, text may contain errors. See original file for clarity</small>*  
13.

14.

15.

16.

17.

R522 at Killeline and that essential reinstatement works be undertaken on the right hand side
of the Main Road between there and the pedestrian entrance to Wingfield Orchard.

| will move at the next Meeting that an immediate survey be undertaken to resolve the issue
of conveying storm water from Farrihy locally through Broadford Village and onward to
Killeen and Rathpalantine.

Notice of Motion submitted by Councillor M. Collins

| will move at the next Meeting that Dublin Coach be contacted to ask if their bus service
from Tralee to Galway could include stops at Abbeyfeale and Newcastle West similar to their
stops for the Tralee Dublin journey.

Notices of Motion submitted by Councillor L. Galvin

| will move at the next Meeting that Dee’s bridge between Bog Mount and Clash be repaired.

| will move at the next Meeting that the Superintendent/Chief Superintendent of An Garda
Siochana be asked to attend the next Meeting to discuss and explain the use of the go safe
vans in towns and villages.

Notice of Motion submitted by Councillor J. Sheahan

| will move at the next Meeting that all housing estates in the village of Athea be properly
signposted in the interest of alerting emergency services to correct locations.

---
